Michelle Goldberg

Image

Ive been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use liberal as an epithet, but thats basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trumps presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. Ive written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian migr who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.

David Leonhardt

Image

Ive worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago  first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. Ive since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.

My politics are left of center. But Im also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about todays Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges  inequality, climate change, the rise of China  and theyll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


The United States Supreme Court has weighed in on affirmative action in college admissions several times, helping shape the policy through the decades. Here are some of the key cases:

Decided on April 23, 1974

Marco DeFunis Jr. v. Odegaard

Marco DeFunis, a white man, argued that he was denied admission to the University of Washington Law School because the school had prioritized admitting minority students who were less qualified, saying that this violated the Fourteenth Amendments equal protection clause. He sued a state education official as well as the schools admissions committee, and successfully gained admission to the school.

By the time the United States Supreme Court considered the case, DeFunis was already in his last year of law school and the court ruled that the case was moot. Though the court chose not to address the issues within the case, it was the first case heard on affirmative action since the policy was established in the 1960s.

Decided on June 26, 1978

Regents of the University of California v. Bakke

Alan Bakke was rejected twice from the medical school at the University of California, Davis. Mr. Bakke, who is white, argued that the schools affirmative action policy to reserve 16 out of 100 spots for qualified minority students violated the equal protection clause as well as the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The Supreme Court ruled that the racial quota system used by the university did violate the Civil Rights Act and that Mr. Bakke should be admitted. But Justice Lewis F. Powell acknowledged in his opinion that a state had legitimate interests in considering the race of applicants, and that a diverse student body could provide compelling educational benefits.


Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.

WASHINGTON  In a major legal blow to President Trumps push to expand offshore oil and gas development, a federal judge ruled that an executive order by Mr. Trump that lifted an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful.

The decision, by Judge Sharon L. Gleason of the United States District Court for the District of Alaska, concluded late Friday that President Barack Obamas 2015 and 2016 withdrawal of about 120 million acres of Arctic Ocean from drilling will remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by Congress. She wrote that an April 2017 executive order by Mr. Trump revoking the drilling ban is unlawful, as it exceeded the presidents authority.

The decision, which is expected to be appealed in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, immediately reinstates the drilling ban on most of the Arctic Ocean off the coast of Alaska, a pristine region home to endangered species including polar bears and bowhead whales where oil companies have long sought to drill. It also has broader implications for Mr. Trumps effort to push drilling across the American coastline and on public lands.

Specifically, the Arctic Ocean drilling case could give legal ammunition to opponents of Mr. Trumps efforts to roll back protections for two million acres of national monuments created by Mr. Obama and President Bill Clinton .


The La Paloma complaint builds on that argument. It contends that subsidies and mandates for solar and wind power  including rebates for residential solar-panel programs and requirements that growing percentages of utility-scale systems come from carbon-free sources  have left California dependent on energy sources that are unreliable for round-the-clock power.

Critics say Mr. Beal wants the commission to create a subsidy for fossil-fuel plants, paid for by utility customers in their rates, and effectively remove the cost advantage that renewable-energy plants now have. Fossil-fuel plants are better able to ensure a continuous supply of electricity because storage capacity is not yet sufficient to keep solar or wind energy flowing when the sun isnt shining or the wind abates. And one of the commissions primary responsibilities is to ensure the reliability of the grid.

Opposition to the Beal effort has poured in from energy markets in the Eastern and Northeastern United States, California regulators, the state attorney general, environmentalists and consumer groups. They are troubled by the potential impact of a decision siding with Mr. Beal and the possibility that regulators could apply it nationwide.

Despite his low profile, there is little question of Mr. Beals political leanings. He created a pro-Trump super PAC, Save America From Its Government, which published a 2016 newspaper advertisement that was headlined Obamacare: A Crash Course in Government Inefficiency and asked, Is America a communist country? During the presidential campaign that year, Mr. Trump listed him as one of his economic advisers.

And in a postelection interview with The Dallas Morning News, while describing himself as a Democrat on virtually all social issues, Mr. Beal said Mr. Trumps victory was the first time in my lifetime where a step in the right direction has been taken to reduce the government and get it out of peoples lives.

Thats all we need to thrive, he said.

But Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at the nonprofit consumer-advocacy organization Public Citizen, said he had not seen evidence of Mr. Beals pursuing an ideological agenda in the La Paloma case so much as a financial one.


The current surge was totally predictable and the Trump administration chose not to prepare for it. Instead it launched a raft of harsh deterrence measures that were totally ineffective, said Wayne Cornelius, a migration scholar at the University of California, San Diego.

He and other critics said the administration had focused on measures to discourage migrants, including restricting their entry at border stations and requiring some asylum applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases are processed, instead of planning humane border reception facilities and working seriously to diminish the violence and poverty in Central America that is driving the migrations.

The influx has stretched every government agency on the front lines, from the Border Patrol, whose agents encounter migrants after they cross, to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, whose officers normally process them for detention or release, as well as the Health and Human Services Department, charged with the care of children who come across the border without families.

In response to the surge, hundreds of agents are being diverted from ports of entry, where they facilitate international trade, to help process migrants. Immigration officers are being redeployed to the border from duties in the interior, and the government is trying to quickly expand capacity at shelters that take in migrant children.

Kirstjen Nielsen, the Department of Homeland Security secretary, said on Friday that the agency is setting up a crisis-response effort.

The system is in free-fall. D.H.S. is doing everything possible to respond to a growing humanitarian catastrophe while also securing our borders, but we have reached peak capacity and are now forced to pull from other missions to respond to the emergency, she said.


[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]

A 7-year-old Guatemalan girl who died in United States custody last December was suffering from a bacterial infection that was so advanced she probably would have been visibly sick for many hours, said several physicians who reviewed a newly released autopsy report of her death.

By the time the girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, arrived at a childrens hospital in El Paso with seizures and difficulty breathing, she already had severe blood abnormalities, according to a part of the report that summarized her condition in the emergency room of the Childrens Hospital at the Hospitals of Providence Memorial Campus.

The new findings were released on Friday by the El Paso County Office of the Medical Examiner. Customs and Border Protection officials and lawyers for the girls family have sparred over whether the severity of her infection  with a common streptococcus bacteria  should have been recognized and whether she should have been taken for medical care more quickly.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


EL PASO  Beto ORourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation.

Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. ORourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented a moment of truth.

Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Jurez were caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.

He added, This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.

His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Jurez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. ORourkes themes  a unifying vision for bridging divides to unite Americans from all walks of life.




The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


What is it like to be part of the group that has been called the most diverse generation in U.S. history? We asked members of Generation Z to tell us what makes them different from their friends, and to describe their identity. Heres what they had to say.


Therapists, of course, deal with the daily challenges of living just as everyone else does. In fact, this familiarity is at the root of the connection we forge with strangers who trust us with their most intimate stories and secrets. Our training has taught us theories and tools and techniques, but whirring beneath our expertise is the fact that we know just how hard it is to be a person. Which is to say, we still come to work each day as ourselves  with our own sets of vulnerabilities, our own longings and insecurities and our own experiences and histories. Of all my credentials as a therapist, my most significant is that Im a card-carrying member of the human race. Without this humanity, Id be useless to help people.

But revealing this humanity is another matter.

[Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, funny, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section. Sign up for our Sunday Best newsletter.]

Most therapists nowadays use some form of whats known as self-disclosure in their work, whether its sharing some of their own reactions that come up during the session or acknowledging that they watch the TV show a patient keeps referring to. Better to admit that you watch The Bachelor than to feign ignorance and accidentally say Colton Underwoods name when the patient hasnt mentioned him yet.

The question of what to share gets tricky. One therapist I know told a patient whose child had Tourettes syndrome that she, too, had a son with Tourettes, and it deepened their relationship. Another colleague treated a man whose father had taken his own life, but he never revealed to the patient that his own father had done the same. In each situation, theres a calculation to make, a subjective litmus test we use to assess the value of the disclosure: Is this information helpful for the patient to have?

Outside the therapy room, though, what are the rules? Here are some things you dont want to do in public as a therapist: Cry to a friend in a restaurant or say, I know, Mom! petulantly into your cellphone while in line at Costco with a patient nearby. If youre a respected child psychologist, like a colleague of mine, you dont want to be standing in the bakery when your 4-year-old has a meltdown about not getting another cookie, culminating with the ear-piercing proclamation Youre the worst mom ever! while your 6-year-old patient and her mother look on, aghast.


Before dawn on April 4, 1994 , Abigail Alling and Mark Van Thillo slipped across the foothills of Arizonas Santa Catalina Mountains. They made their way to a looming monument of geodesic domes and pyramids known as Biosphere 2. The three-acre complex contained a miniature rain forest, a mangrove, a desert and a coral reef  along with seven people who had been sealed inside for a month.

Ms. Alling and Mr. Van Thillo had recently emerged from a two-year stay in Biosphere 2. Later, after they were arrested, they told reporters that they feared for the safety of the people inside. They were determined to bring the mission to an end.

They pulled open five of Biosphere 2s doors and broke their seals. As outdoor air rushed in, they made their way to the ventilation system, where they smashed some glass panels.

That break-in effectively marked the end of one of the strangest experiments in the history of science. No one had ever built a sealed ecological world as big as Biosphere 2, and no one had ever survived so long inside one. The project would later be dismissed as a folly and a waste of effort. And yet, 25 years on, its an experiment worth rediscovering. Biosphere 2 might have some lessons to offer about managing Biosphere 1  our planet.


A slew of boldfaced tech names, beginning with the ride-sharing platform Lyft, are entering the stock markets. Lyfts main competitor, Uber, along with Pinterest and Slack, may list their shares this year, and possibly Airbnb in 2020. All of these start-ups present themselves as disruptive departures from old norms, but close ties to previous tech generations are crucial to their success.


When I first moved to Southern California, I was struck by the Friday afternoon conversations in which colleagues discussed their weekend hiking plans the way New Yorkers would talk about where they might have brunch. Almost everyone hiked, and they were eager to extol the merits of favorite trails.

I soon came to understand that this reflected something larger: the importance of Californians relationship with the outdoors. The climate was not a punch line, but a reality that shaped lifestyles. Only after years of reading history did I appreciate the extent to which the natural world has always been intrinsic to Californias identity.

So the exuberant embrace of this years super bloom, an exceptional show of wildflowers coloring normally barren hillsides and desert valleys, makes perfect sense. The wildflower hotlines and daily website updates, the Instagram selfies in poppy fields, the pilgrimages to find the rare ghost flower, represent the latest iteration of traditions that date back to the 19th century, when thousands of hikers took to the Southern California foothills every weekend.


The Fed was clearly overoptimistic about the economys prospects, as it has pretty consistently been for the past decade. Its worth noting that throughout that whole period conservative critics of the Fed  the same people now backing Trump  attacked the institution for keeping interest rates too low, not too high. Still, its now clear that the attempt to normalize monetary policy was premature.

But the Feds premature rate hikes arent why the Trump tax cut is failing. How do we know that? Because all those boasts about why the tax cut would work miracles were based on a specific story about what is holding the U.S. economy back. And that story was and is all wrong.

The Trumpist theory  which was, Im sorry to say, endorsed by conservative economists who should have known better  was that there was a huge pile of money sitting outside the U.S. that companies would bring back and invest productively if given the incentive of lower tax rates. But that pile of money was an accounting fiction. And the tax cut didnt give corporations an incentive to build new factories and so on; all it did was induce them to shift their tax-avoidance strategies.

As Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, a casual glance at the data seems to suggest that American companies earn a lot of their profits at their overseas subsidiaries. But a closer look shows that the bulk of these reported profits are in a handful of small countries with low or zero tax rates, like Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland. The companies obviously arent earning huge profits in these tiny economies; theyre just using accounting gimmicks to assign profits earned elsewhere to subsidiaries that may have a few factories, but sometimes consist of little more than a small office, or even just a post-office box.

These basically phony profits then accumulate on the books of the overseas subsidiaries, rather than the home company. But this doesnt affect their ability to invest in America: if Apple wants to spend a billion dollars here, it can always borrow the money using the assets of its Irish subsidiary as collateral. In other words, U.S. taxes werent having any significant effect in deterring real investment in the U.S. economy.

When Trump cut the tax rate, some companies brought money home. But for the most part this had no economic significance. Heres how it works: Apple Ireland transfers some of its assets to Apple U.S.A. Officially, Apple Ireland has reduced its investment spending, while paying a dividend to U.S. investors. In reality, Apple as an entity has the same total profits and the same total assets it did before; it hasnt devoted a single additional dollar to purchases of equipment, R&D, or anything else for its U.S. operations.

Not surprisingly, then, the investment boom Trump economists promised has never materialized. Companies didnt use their tax breaks to invest more; mainly they used them to buy back their own stock. This in turn, put more money in the hands of investors, which gave the economy a temporary boost  although for 2018 as a whole, one of the biggest drivers of faster growth was, believe it or not, higher government spending.


On the face of it, this might seem strange. Why would having an opportunity to act morally in one setting influence your level of moral outrage in another  especially when your identity is secret the entire time?

Our data support the following explanation: People have a subconscious desire to signal their virtue. Even in private, people implicitly ask themselves, If I were being observed, how good would I look?

Consider the participants who were given an opportunity to act morally by sharing money. If they had been observed, their choice would have served as a powerful signal of their virtue (or lack thereof). And as a result, the value of expressing outrage as a virtue signal would decline. After all, if a participant chose to share, she would look virtuous regardless of how much outrage she subsequently expressed toward the selfish person. (And if she chose not to share, she would look dishonorable regardless of how much outrage she later expressed.)

In contrast, the participants who were not given the opportunity to share money had no way to signal their virtue to a hypothetical observer besides getting outraged. So, even though no one was watching, they had a stronger subconscious motivation to express outrage  and, as we found, they reported feeling significantly more outraged.

What our findings show is that asking whether outrage is pure is the wrong question. Even authentic outrage is influenced by implicit strategic calculations. This shouldnt come as a surprise to anyone familiar with evolutionary theories that hypothesize that morality arose precisely as a way of signaling ones trustworthiness in cooperative endeavors.

But this also shouldnt strike you as cynical. In fact, we view our findings optimistically. They suggest that if an individual is motivated by a desire to signal her virtue, that does not necessarily mean she is faking her outrage. Of course, people do sometimes fake or exaggerate their outrage to look good. Our point is that the presence of strategic motives does not itself make a moral reaction inauthentic.

Thats something to keep in mind the next time you are tempted to dismiss something as mere virtue signaling.

Jillian Jordan is a postdoctoral fellow at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern. David Rand is an associate professor at the Sloan School of Management and the department of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


What we saw on a debate team in a high-poverty urban public school was similar. Monthly debate competitions gave the work a clear sense of purpose and urgency. Faculty members and older students mentored the novices. Students told us that debate is like a family. Perhaps most important, debate gave students a chance to speak in their own voices on issues that mattered to them. Inducted into an ancient form of verbal and mental discipline, they discovered a source of personal power.

In essence, two different logics reign in the same buildings. Before the final bell, we treat students as passive recipients of knowledge whose interests and identities matter little. After the final bell  in newspaper, debate, theater, athletics and more  we treat students as people who learn by doing, people who can teach as well as learn, and people whose passions and ideas are worth cultivating. It should come as no surprise that when we asked students to reflect on their high school experiences, it was most often experiences like theater and debate that they cited as having influenced them in profound ways.

The truly powerful core classes that we found  and at every school there were some  echoed what we saw in extracurriculars. Rather than touring students through the textbook, teachers invited students to participate in the authentic work of the field. For example, a skillful science teacher in a high-poverty-district high school offered a course in which her students designed, researched, carried out and wrote up original experiments. While the experiments varied in their sophistication, all students were initiated into what it meant to do science. In turn, this allowed them to understand that science is a messy and uncertain business  much less knowable than it seems when reciting Newtons laws.

Why are classrooms like that one so rare? Its not the teachers fault. The default mode of the classrooms we observed reflects the mold in which public high schools were cast a century ago. Students are batch-processed, sorted into tracks based on perceived ability and awarded credits based on seat time rather than actual learning. Making matters worse are college admissions pressures, state testing, curriculum frameworks that emphasize breadth over depth, simplistic systems of teacher evaluation, large classes, large teacher loads and short class periods. The result is that it often feels as though teachers and students have been conscripted into a game that nobody wants to be playing.

How can we make what happens before the bell more like what happens after it?

Schools need to become much more deeply attached to the world beyond their walls. Extracurriculars gain much of their power from their connections to their associated professional domains. School subjects, in comparison, feel devoid of context. Promising schools tackle this dilemma in different ways: Some use project-based learning to engage students in their local communities; some collaborate with museums, employers and others who can give students experiences in professional domains; still others prioritize hiring teachers who have had experience working in (and not just teaching about) their fields. All of these choices bring meaning to work that is too often taught in a vacuum.

Teachers need both more freedom and more support. They need longer class periods, opportunities for collaboration and teaching loads small enough to allow them to form real relationships with students. They need expectations for topic coverage that permit more opportunities for depth. They need districts that focus less on compliance and more on helping teachers learn in rich ways that parallel how those teachers might teach their students. Finally, teachers need parents who ask, What is my child curious about? rather than How did she do on the test?

Most important of all, high school students need to be granted much more agency, responsibility and choice. While there are some things that everyone should know, much of what will help students in college and beyond are skills: the ability to speak and write persuasively, to reason and engage with one anothers reasoning and to think about core content in complicated ways. Happily, there are multiple paths to achieving these ends. Students can choose what scientific puzzles to explore and what English or history electives to take while still developing a shared foundation of skills.


Cleared of collusion and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything thats evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. Were going to get rid of Obamacare, Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. Its good. Its important.

To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year.

Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them.

Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the partys boilerplate on government and the economy. Im not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and Im not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid, he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that everybodys got to be covered, which he called an un-Republican thing to say. I am going to take care of everybody, he added. I dont care if it costs me votes or not.


It is possible that you didnt know a 24-year-old black woman started the integration of the New York City mass transit system in 1854. Its a very good story that involves some kicking and screaming, a ruined hat and a future president of the United States.

And now shes getting a statue next to Grand Central Station. About time.

Were coming to the end of Womens History Month, and all in all, its been a pretty good celebration. Perhaps a little superior to the one when Donald Trump dropped in on a womens empowerment panel and asked the assembled high achievers whether any of them had ever heard of Susan B. Anthony.

So about Elizabeth Jennings, a Manhattan schoolteacher in the years before the Civil War. She was rushing to church services, where she was supposed to play the organ, when a trolley conductor told her that his car was only for white people and shed have to get off and wait for another ride.

Jennings was fearless. She grabbed onto an open window frame, screaming Murder! when the conductor tried to pull her off. She hung on for dear life until a police officer shoved her onto the sidewalk, soiling her going-to-church dress and smashing her bonnet.


Even here Dubowitz is merely warming to his theme. Freeze Irans foreign exchange reserves? Doable. Expose the immense wealth of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sanction the companies he and other leading regime figures control? Ditto. Unleash lawsuits against companies still doing business with Iran to recover billions of dollars in outstanding terrorism judgments against the country? That, too.

The point isnt to punish Iran for punishments sake. Its to create leverage for a better nuclear deal. Last May, Mike Pompeo set a dozen parameters for an agreement, including unqualified access to U.N. nuclear inspectors, permanent cessation of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, the end of Irans ballistic-missile program, withdrawal of its forces from Syria, and the release of U.S. nationals held in its prisons.

Pompeos demands have been alternatively dismissed as silly or reckless by most of Washingtons foreign policy establishment. But it says something about the debasement of diplomatic expectations  both of what we have a right to demand and what we think we can achieve  that any of it should be controversial.

Non-nuclear states that sponsor terrorism and subscribe to millenarian ideologies should never have access to any part of the nuclear fuel cycle, ever. Any U.S. administration that abdicates the responsibility to do everything it can to prevent such access effectively renounces Americas status as a superpower as well.

Irans G.D.P. is roughly equivalent to that of the greater Boston area, with 17 times the population. The regime may be a force to be reckoned with in the Middle East. But it is hardly a giant on the world stage, immune to any form of economic pressure.

The Trump administration has succeeded in dramatically raising the costs to Iran for its sinister behavior, at no cost to the United States or our allies. Thats the definition of a foreign-policy achievement. Its time to move the needle up again. The longer Hezbollah fighters go unpaid, or the Assad regime unaided, the better off the people of the Middle East will be.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


The automated decision systems that are pervasive in banking, the criminal justice system and the tech sector can easily amplify forms of discrimination that were once attributable to human bias only. The Department of Housing and Urban Development spoke to this problem on Thursday when it charged Facebook with violating the Fair Housing Act of 1968 by permitting advertisers to restrict access to housing ads based on user characteristics like race, religion or national origin.

This HUD filing resembles a similar suit filed last year by fair housing groups with which Facebook forged a sweeping settlement this month . Nevertheless, federal involvement puts tech companies on notice that they can be held accountable for civil rights violations connected with the ostensibly neutral systems they use to decide which readers see which material.

The Fair Housing Act of 1968 was partly intended to compensate for housing discrimination inflicted by the federal government itself, as it had previously shut most African-Americans out of homeownership through redlining. That practice entailed drawing lines around black neighborhoods and declaring them unsafe for federally backed mortgage insurance.

The act outlawed housing discrimination on paper, but the federal government has consistently dragged its feet in enforcing it, leaving most of the work to private groups that have frequently mounted court challenges to housing discrimination  and the governments failure to fight it. In recent years, these groups have increasingly focused on the question of whether online services are replicating longstanding biases by using algorithms to target specific users.


HERAT, Afghanistan  A 2017 wall calendar dangled from a nail over Kawsar Roshans bed on the otherwise blank wall of her room. Best year for me she had written, in curly script, above aerial photos of lakes and waterfalls. She drew a smiley-face next to her wobbly English letters.

The out-of-date calendar was nothing too special, said Kawsar, though she does love waterfalls, especially Niagara Falls  which she saw with her own eyes during that best year.

Kawsar, then 16, saw a lot of places as a member of Afghanistans first-ever girls robotics team. More than any other Afghan girl she knows. Or boy. Or even grown-up, for that matter.

You may remember hearing about that team. In the summer of 2017, Kawsar and five teammates, along with their coach, were denied visas into the United States for a robotics competition in Washington, prompting an international outcry.


Like everybody else, Ive often heard that chefs home refrigerators are famously empty. Because we work so hard, so long, so late, the mythology suggests, we dont ever cook at home. Everybody seems to know, and admire, that our home fridges are echo chambers but for a six-pack of beer and a bottle of hot sauce. I notice I respond to this bit of rock n roll chef hype the same way I do when I read about that supposedly inviolable routine of accomplished and serious writers, the one in which the writer wakes up and writes for four hours and then goes for a walk to clear the mind and then after lunch reads in the afternoon and then goes to the pub for a few drinks before dinner and then retires by the fire before bed.

Which is: Oh, man. Must be nice!

But if you find yourself in the thick of, say, a brisk chef career, with maybe a professional writing gig on the side, as well as the not-negligible project of keeping a home, loaded up with the added considerations of some compelling children in the household whom you might like to see and know before they are gone, you probably have managed to keep a few vegetables in the drawer and a carton of eggs and a bin of cheeses and deli meats at least. I recommend adding a container of this anchovy-garlic dressing to your fridge too, at all times. Its nothing, really  a jar of startlingly flavorful salad dressing essentially  but it does some improbable heavy lifting. And at mealtime, no matter how loosely defined, it can make you feel less like a barn animal at the trough and more like a civilized human at the table. Even if you are standing in front of the fridge with the door open rooting in the drawers at 2:30 in the morning.


Great.

I read about high-profile cases: Chuck Knoblauch, the second baseman who once hit a sportscasters mother in the face with a wild ball. Mackey Sasser, the catcher who couldnt throw back to the pitcher without double-taking.

And then there was Steve Blass, the great pitcher who developed the yips and was sent down to the minors. I dug up Roger Angells 1975 profile of him from The New Yorker and read every word, hoping to uncover some secret that would change my own luck. There was, of course, nothing. Mr. Blass retired early and became a jewelry salesman.At first my team chalked it up to nerves.

Naomi! my coach shouted after I fielded a grounder and then threw it 10 feet to her right at practice. Just relax!

I tried. But the problem with trying to relax is that the more you try, the less relaxed you feel. I tried to take my time. I tried to be natural. I tried to focus on the mechanics; I tried not to focus on the mechanics at all. I tried to think about being loose; I tried to think about throwing hard. I tried really, really hard not to think.

Sometimes it would work for a while. Id land a few good tosses, and hopefulness would creep in. But inevitably the anxiety would catch up to me, and soon enough a ball would sail past my partner, sending her jogging into the distance to retrieve it.

After a particularly rough game, my coach pulled me aside. I had been desperate to tell someone on the team what was happening to me: that I was under some kind of curse, that my baseball skills had apparently gone into a coma, that this wasnt the real me. I thought this was my chance.


9 U.S.

Can The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your Questions


9 U.S.

Can The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your Questions


This nontraditional recipe features the ultimate paella cheat: The dish cooks in the oven, as opposed to being actively monitored on the stovetop over a flame. Cooking it this way wont get you the familiar socarrat on the bottom of the skillet, but the wonderfully crispy bits that develop at the edges of the roasting pan are delightful in their own way.

Featured in: Adapted, Adjusted, But Always (Kind Of) Paella.


This nontraditional recipe features the ultimate paella cheat: The dish cooks in the oven, as opposed to being actively monitored on the stovetop over a flame. Cooking it this way wont get you the familiar socarrat on the bottom of the skillet, but the wonderfully crispy bits that develop at the edges of the roasting pan are delightful in their own way.

Featured in: Adapted, Adjusted, But Always (Kind Of) Paella.


This nontraditional recipe features the ultimate paella cheat: The dish cooks in the oven, as opposed to being actively monitored on the stovetop over a flame. Cooking it this way wont get you the familiar socarrat on the bottom of the skillet, but the wonderfully crispy bits that develop at the edges of the roasting pan are delightful in their own way.

Featured in: Adapted, Adjusted, But Always (Kind Of) Paella.


This is a no-recipe recipe, a recipe without an ingredients list or steps. It invites you to improvise in the kitchen.

Set a pot of nicely salted water over high heat to boil. When it does, add the fettuccine, then get the rest of your dinner ready as it cooks to al dente. Chop up a fistful of mint and a small shallot if you have one (half a small onion if you dont), mixing them into a cup or two of fresh ricotta, then loosening the mixture with a healthy drizzle of extra-virgin olive oil and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add some salt and pepper to taste, perhaps a shake of red pepper. When the pastas done, whichll be about the same time as youre done with the sauce, drain it in a colander and add it to a big warm bowl, then fold the cheese into it, mixing gently. Serve to adoration.

Sam Sifton features a no-recipe recipe every Wednesday in his What to Cook newsletter. Sign up to receive it. You can find more no-recipe recipes here.


Paillard is the French word for a thin slice of meat that cooks quickly. (Sometimes, a thicker piece of meat is pounded with a mallet to make it thinner.) This recipe is an easy way to make a chicken paillard without much pounding. Essentially, you butterfly a boneless, skinless chicken breast, slicing horizontally to make a flat, heart-shaped breast, then pound it lightly. Unfortunately, a chicken breast is often dry and tasteless, but it doesnt have to be. Seasoned and cooked correctly, it should be tasty and moist. A dab of tapenade, a traditional Provenal black olive paste, makes a perfect accompaniment.

Featured in: You Deserve More Succulent Chicken.


A Chinese take-out staple, hot and sour soup is super easy to create at home  and comes together in just 15 minutes. This weeknight version bolsters the traditional mushrooms and tofu with the addition of store-bought pork dumplings, but you could just as easily use chicken or vegetable dumplings, depending on your preference. Cornstarch gives the broth its velvety texture, vinegar adds verve, and white pepper adds subtle complexity, though black pepper is a perfectly fine substitute. Adjust the seasoning with extra soy sauce, ginger and vinegar for a more assertive soup.


Baked ziti is meant to feed a crowd, and this one surely does. Cheater meatballs made with uncased Italian sausage are strewn throughout the sauce for heft, and baby spinach lends a pop of color. Because ricotta has a tendency to dry out when baked, crme frache is added to ensure a more velvety texture, but sour cream thinned out with a little heavy cream works just as well. The whole dish can be assembled and baked ahead the day before. Bring it to room temperature before warming, then broil right before serving for crisp edges.


This is a no-recipe recipe, a recipe without an ingredients list or steps. It invites you to improvise in the kitchen. Put a Dutch oven over medium-high heat on your stove, then add a glug of olive oil and saut in it a handful of chopped onions, a couple diced ribs of celery, a diced jalapeo and a small diced red pepper. When the mixture is supersoft, add a few cloves of minced garlic and cook for a couple more minutes, then dump a pound and a half of ground beef into the pot  ideally the sort that is 20 percent fat  and stir and sizzle until it is well browned, about 10 minutes. Bring the heat down a bit and add a lot of tomato paste  say 3 tablespoons, maybe 4  and let it get a little toasty before adding a cup or more of pured canned tomatoes. Cook that down for a few minutes, then add quite a few glugs of Worcestershire sauce and hot sauce to taste, and continue cooking until the mixture is quite thick, another 15 or 20 minutes. Season to taste and serve on toasted potato buns. I like steamed broccoli on the side, a walk for the dog and bed.

Sam Sifton features a no-recipe recipe every Wednesday in his What to Cook newsletter. Sign up to receive it. You can find more no-recipe recipes here.


A staple of any fast-casual restaurant, broccoli-cheddar soup has somewhat of a cult following on the internet. Thicker than cream of broccoli, this roux-thickened soup can be pured completely smooth or left chunky and rustic. Either way, be sure to use the sharpest Cheddar available (white or orange work here). Itll provide richness in addition to a necessary acidity.

Learn: How to Make Soup


This creamy, vibrant soup is a Thai-inspired version of the pured squash soup you know and love. The green curry paste, which is relatively easy to find in the international aisle of the grocery store, along with coconut milk and fish sauce, perfectly complements the butternut squash's sweetness. But it's the topping  a spin on miang kham, a snack in Thailand and Laos full of peanuts, coconut and chiles  that's the real standout.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Oils and vinegars: Extra-virgin olive oil, neutral cooking oil (such as canola or grapeseed), red-wine vinegar, white vinegar or white-wine vinegar.

Cans and jars: Tuna in olive oil, tomato paste, diced tomatoes, tomato sauce, chicken stock or vegetable stock (box-packed tastes better than canned). A good-tasting, simple tomato sauce can become a soup or a stew, or make a quick dinner with pasta or polenta.

Spices and dried herbs: Kosher salt, red-pepper flakes, ground cayenne, curry powder, bay leaves, black peppercorns, sweet paprika, ground cinnamon, ground cumin, garlic powder or granulated garlic, dried thyme and dried oregano. This selection will take you through everything from a basic beef stew to Saturday morning pancakes to Thanksgiving dinner.

Grains and starches: Long-grain white rice, one or two other grains (such as quinoa or farro), dry pasta (one long, one short and chunky), plain bread crumbs, crackers, canned beans (white beans, black beans and-or chickpeas), dry lentils.

Nuts and nut butters: Walnuts, almonds, roasted peanuts, peanut butter (smooth and crunchy).

Sweeteners: Honey, maple syrup, granulated sugar.

Preserves and pickles: Fruit jams and preserves, anchovies.

Condiments and sauces: Basic vinaigrette, mustard (yellow or Dijon), mayonnaise, ketchup, hot sauce, salsa, soy sauce.

Produce: Garlic, onions, all-purpose potatoes (such as Yukon Gold), lemons, shelf-stable tofu (Essential for vegetarians, Expanded for others).

Dairy: Eggs, unsalted butter, cheeses (Cheddar, Jack or Colby, Parmesan), milk or cream for cooking (not skim).

Freezer: Chicken parts, sausages, thick fish fillets, shrimp, thick-sliced bread (for toast), spinach (and other vegetables such as corn and peas), berries (and other fruit such as peaches and mango). Some fruits and vegetables take particularly well to freezing  and in most growing seasons, the quality is better than fresh. Frozen fruit is useful for baking and smoothies.

Baking: All-purpose flour, cornmeal, rolled oats, cornstarch, baking soda, baking powder, pure vanilla extract, light brown sugar, dark brown sugar, confectioners sugar, bittersweet baking chocolate, semisweet chocolate chips, raisins or another dried fruit, cocoa powder. With these ingredients on hand, thousands of cookies, brownies, cakes, muffins, quick breads and other sweets can be produced without a trip to the store.


How Does a Pressure Cooker Work?

Dating to the 17th century, the first pressurized cooking pot was developed by the French physicist Denis Papin. Basically a pot with a tight-sealing lid and a steam valve, a pressure cooker traps the steam rising from the boiling liquid in the pot, which, in turn, raises the temperature at which that liquid boils. (For example, without pressure, water at sea level boils at 212 degrees. Under pressure, that temperature can rise to as much as 266 degrees.) The higher temperature, combined with the pressure in the pot that forces the hot steam into the ingredients, cooks food much faster than traditional methods.

A pressure cooker works at different pressure levels, each one changing the boiling point of the liquid. With most pressure cookers today, the pressure gauge is preset for two options. At low pressure (10 pounds per square inch, or p.s.i.), the internal temperature reaches 235 degrees. At high pressure (15 pounds p.s.i.), it can reach 250 degrees. A steam valve allows excess steam to escape, keeping the pressure cooker from exploding, but, as countless tales of split pea soups on the ceiling attest, it has historically been an imperfect method. Modern pressure cookers  stovetop and electric  are quite safe. They dont explode as your grandmothers may have. But, by eliminating the guesswork, electric pressure cookers take the anxiety out of the process.

For a long time, stovetop pressure cookers were the only style available. As the name suggests, theyre heated on the stove, and set to high or low pressure. As the pressure inside increases, the gauge on its lid pops up, indicating that the inside of the pot has reached the optimal pressure. Once there, the heat needs to be adjusted to keep the pots temperature and pressure constant. This is to avoid over-pressurizing (which can burn the food inside or, in extreme cases, explode). It also keeps the pressure and temperature from falling before the food is done. Monitoring the pressure isnt hard, but you do need to keep an eye on it.

With an electric pressure cooker, everything is done automatically. Once it reaches the correct pressure and temperature, it will stay there without the cooks having to do anything. For that reason, you can set it and walk away, much as you would with a slow cooker. And dont worry: It wont explode. It will simply turn itself off if the pressure or temperature ever rise too high.


















2010(National Cyber Security Center)11011520



(Ciaran Martin)










(National Cyber Security Center)(Ciaran Martin)

15


Grindr

 (Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States)

Grindr

9300Grindr60%1.5


Hess

_____



Lukas Barth-Tuttas/EPA, via Shutterstock




(Steven Mnuchin)(Robert Lighthizer)









(Imperial Twilight Twilight: The Opium War and the End of Chinas Last Golden Age)(Stephen R. Platt)19

 Ng Han Guan/Associated Press



1839







(Devjit Srivastava)

65

(University College London)(James Cox)

FAAH-OUT






(Hofstra University)(Julian G. Ku)

(Agence France-Presse)

2012




2012

7








66

(Science Olympiad)

2013(MITs Research Science Institute)3%90  (Looking for Luke)


















Coco Keith Hiro



Karen




1%2%







1964(Charles de Gaulle)21

55

 Pool photo by Francois Mori






Liveleak

Liveleak2006YouTube1516002000

Liveleak2006OgrishRotten.comStile ProjectRotten.comOgrish911

Ogrish(Sue Tait)



Ogrish


YouTubeYouTube



USCASU

C






22





(Bill Langlois)(Sox)

68

(Red Sox)

Care.Coach


1950

50







30060050







(Alastair Dutton)


252020124

David Cho1000





 

 25

 










(Southeast Asian association)(Emmanuel Macron)



20186(Five Star Movement)(League)


(Patrick Chappatte)

Twitter






5





5(Center for Strategic and International Studies)Avaaz(Russia Today)YouTube


2016


























9 U.S.

Can The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your Questions






(Ekaterina Schulmann)(Council for Civil Society and Human Rights)12

2 Mladen Antonov/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images



1999(Boris Yeltsin)

2 Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times




2005

1973

16






(Karl Kusserow)

(Peabody Essex Museum)55  (Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art)52599

(College of William & Mary)(Alan Braddock)



2007 Valerie Hegarty, Brooklyn Museum






  (Kaplan)(Venture for America)

1000

 Guerin Blask for The New York Times

Vox(Ezra Klein)Making Sense(Sam Harris)(Joe Rogan)

6.5(Democratic National Committee)100




2017(Saud al-Qahtani)(Jamal Khashoggi)NSO

120

National Security AgencyNSA(Mossad)

NSO(DarkMatter)

NSO Giuseppe Cacace/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images



(FBI)NSAFBI











Yardbird

Yardbird

Yardbird

Yardbird

In Situ(Corey Lee)

2011Yardbird Nicola Longobardi for The New York Times

(Matt Abergel)Lindsay Jang

Yardbird






20




1029737 Max 812

(Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee)(Nurcahyo Utomo)1



7811




 Edward Wong/The New York Times

117






1. 

2. 

3. 



4. 




By Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham

We dissect Jordan Peeles new psychological thriller, Us, and discuss the films central question (WITHOUT SPOILERS): Are any of us ever truly free from the past?

Also, were going on a short hiatus. Happy spring, and well be back in your ears soon.


Michelle Goldberg

Image

Ive been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use liberal as an epithet, but thats basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trumps presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. Ive written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian migr who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.

David Leonhardt

Image

Ive worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago  first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. Ive since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.

My politics are left of center. But Im also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about todays Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges  inequality, climate change, the rise of China  and theyll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


The United States Supreme Court has weighed in on affirmative action in college admissions several times, helping shape the policy through the decades. Here are some of the key cases:

Decided on April 23, 1974

Marco DeFunis Jr. v. Odegaard

Marco DeFunis, a white man, argued that he was denied admission to the University of Washington Law School because the school had prioritized admitting minority students who were less qualified, saying that this violated the Fourteenth Amendments equal protection clause. He sued a state education official as well as the schools admissions committee, and successfully gained admission to the school.

By the time the United States Supreme Court considered the case, DeFunis was already in his last year of law school and the court ruled that the case was moot. Though the court chose not to address the issues within the case, it was the first case heard on affirmative action since the policy was established in the 1960s.

Decided on June 26, 1978

Regents of the University of California v. Bakke

Alan Bakke was rejected twice from the medical school at the University of California, Davis. Mr. Bakke, who is white, argued that the schools affirmative action policy to reserve 16 out of 100 spots for qualified minority students violated the equal protection clause as well as the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The Supreme Court ruled that the racial quota system used by the university did violate the Civil Rights Act and that Mr. Bakke should be admitted. But Justice Lewis F. Powell acknowledged in his opinion that a state had legitimate interests in considering the race of applicants, and that a diverse student body could provide compelling educational benefits.


Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.

WASHINGTON  In a major legal blow to President Trumps push to expand offshore oil and gas development, a federal judge ruled that an executive order by Mr. Trump that lifted an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful.

The decision, by Judge Sharon L. Gleason of the United States District Court for the District of Alaska, concluded late Friday that President Barack Obamas 2015 and 2016 withdrawal of about 120 million acres of Arctic Ocean from drilling will remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by Congress. She wrote that an April 2017 executive order by Mr. Trump revoking the drilling ban is unlawful, as it exceeded the presidents authority.

The decision, which is expected to be appealed in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, immediately reinstates the drilling ban on most of the Arctic Ocean off the coast of Alaska, a pristine region home to endangered species including polar bears and bowhead whales where oil companies have long sought to drill. It also has broader implications for Mr. Trumps effort to push drilling across the American coastline and on public lands.

Specifically, the Arctic Ocean drilling case could give legal ammunition to opponents of Mr. Trumps efforts to roll back protections for two million acres of national monuments created by Mr. Obama and President Bill Clinton .


The La Paloma complaint builds on that argument. It contends that subsidies and mandates for solar and wind power  including rebates for residential solar-panel programs and requirements that growing percentages of utility-scale systems come from carbon-free sources  have left California dependent on energy sources that are unreliable for round-the-clock power.

Critics say Mr. Beal wants the commission to create a subsidy for fossil-fuel plants, paid for by utility customers in their rates, and effectively remove the cost advantage that renewable-energy plants now have. Fossil-fuel plants are better able to ensure a continuous supply of electricity because storage capacity is not yet sufficient to keep solar or wind energy flowing when the sun isnt shining or the wind abates. And one of the commissions primary responsibilities is to ensure the reliability of the grid.

Opposition to the Beal effort has poured in from energy markets in the Eastern and Northeastern United States, California regulators, the state attorney general, environmentalists and consumer groups. They are troubled by the potential impact of a decision siding with Mr. Beal and the possibility that regulators could apply it nationwide.

Despite his low profile, there is little question of Mr. Beals political leanings. He created a pro-Trump super PAC, Save America From Its Government, which published a 2016 newspaper advertisement that was headlined Obamacare: A Crash Course in Government Inefficiency and asked, Is America a communist country? During the presidential campaign that year, Mr. Trump listed him as one of his economic advisers.

And in a postelection interview with The Dallas Morning News, while describing himself as a Democrat on virtually all social issues, Mr. Beal said Mr. Trumps victory was the first time in my lifetime where a step in the right direction has been taken to reduce the government and get it out of peoples lives.

Thats all we need to thrive, he said.

But Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at the nonprofit consumer-advocacy organization Public Citizen, said he had not seen evidence of Mr. Beals pursuing an ideological agenda in the La Paloma case so much as a financial one.


The current surge was totally predictable and the Trump administration chose not to prepare for it. Instead it launched a raft of harsh deterrence measures that were totally ineffective, said Wayne Cornelius, a migration scholar at the University of California, San Diego.

He and other critics said the administration had focused on measures to discourage migrants, including restricting their entry at border stations and requiring some asylum applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases are processed, instead of planning humane border reception facilities and working seriously to diminish the violence and poverty in Central America that is driving the migrations.

The influx has stretched every government agency on the front lines, from the Border Patrol, whose agents encounter migrants after they cross, to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, whose officers normally process them for detention or release, as well as the Health and Human Services Department, charged with the care of children who come across the border without families.

In response to the surge, hundreds of agents are being diverted from ports of entry, where they facilitate international trade, to help process migrants. Immigration officers are being redeployed to the border from duties in the interior, and the government is trying to quickly expand capacity at shelters that take in migrant children.

Kirstjen Nielsen, the Department of Homeland Security secretary, said on Friday that the agency is setting up a crisis-response effort.

The system is in free-fall. D.H.S. is doing everything possible to respond to a growing humanitarian catastrophe while also securing our borders, but we have reached peak capacity and are now forced to pull from other missions to respond to the emergency, she said.


[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]

A 7-year-old Guatemalan girl who died in United States custody last December was suffering from a bacterial infection that was so advanced she probably would have been visibly sick for many hours, said several physicians who reviewed a newly released autopsy report of her death.

By the time the girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, arrived at a childrens hospital in El Paso with seizures and difficulty breathing, she already had severe blood abnormalities, according to a part of the report that summarized her condition in the emergency room of the Childrens Hospital at the Hospitals of Providence Memorial Campus.

The new findings were released on Friday by the El Paso County Office of the Medical Examiner. Customs and Border Protection officials and lawyers for the girls family have sparred over whether the severity of her infection  with a common streptococcus bacteria  should have been recognized and whether she should have been taken for medical care more quickly.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


EL PASO  Beto ORourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation.

Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. ORourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented a moment of truth.

Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Jurez were caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.

He added, This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.

His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Jurez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. ORourkes themes  a unifying vision for bridging divides to unite Americans from all walks of life.




The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


What is it like to be part of the group that has been called the most diverse generation in U.S. history? We asked members of Generation Z to tell us what makes them different from their friends, and to describe their identity. Heres what they had to say.


Therapists, of course, deal with the daily challenges of living just as everyone else does. In fact, this familiarity is at the root of the connection we forge with strangers who trust us with their most intimate stories and secrets. Our training has taught us theories and tools and techniques, but whirring beneath our expertise is the fact that we know just how hard it is to be a person. Which is to say, we still come to work each day as ourselves  with our own sets of vulnerabilities, our own longings and insecurities and our own experiences and histories. Of all my credentials as a therapist, my most significant is that Im a card-carrying member of the human race. Without this humanity, Id be useless to help people.

But revealing this humanity is another matter.

[Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, funny, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section. Sign up for our Sunday Best newsletter.]

Most therapists nowadays use some form of whats known as self-disclosure in their work, whether its sharing some of their own reactions that come up during the session or acknowledging that they watch the TV show a patient keeps referring to. Better to admit that you watch The Bachelor than to feign ignorance and accidentally say Colton Underwoods name when the patient hasnt mentioned him yet.

The question of what to share gets tricky. One therapist I know told a patient whose child had Tourettes syndrome that she, too, had a son with Tourettes, and it deepened their relationship. Another colleague treated a man whose father had taken his own life, but he never revealed to the patient that his own father had done the same. In each situation, theres a calculation to make, a subjective litmus test we use to assess the value of the disclosure: Is this information helpful for the patient to have?

Outside the therapy room, though, what are the rules? Here are some things you dont want to do in public as a therapist: Cry to a friend in a restaurant or say, I know, Mom! petulantly into your cellphone while in line at Costco with a patient nearby. If youre a respected child psychologist, like a colleague of mine, you dont want to be standing in the bakery when your 4-year-old has a meltdown about not getting another cookie, culminating with the ear-piercing proclamation Youre the worst mom ever! while your 6-year-old patient and her mother look on, aghast.


Before dawn on April 4, 1994 , Abigail Alling and Mark Van Thillo slipped across the foothills of Arizonas Santa Catalina Mountains. They made their way to a looming monument of geodesic domes and pyramids known as Biosphere 2. The three-acre complex contained a miniature rain forest, a mangrove, a desert and a coral reef  along with seven people who had been sealed inside for a month.

Ms. Alling and Mr. Van Thillo had recently emerged from a two-year stay in Biosphere 2. Later, after they were arrested, they told reporters that they feared for the safety of the people inside. They were determined to bring the mission to an end.

They pulled open five of Biosphere 2s doors and broke their seals. As outdoor air rushed in, they made their way to the ventilation system, where they smashed some glass panels.

That break-in effectively marked the end of one of the strangest experiments in the history of science. No one had ever built a sealed ecological world as big as Biosphere 2, and no one had ever survived so long inside one. The project would later be dismissed as a folly and a waste of effort. And yet, 25 years on, its an experiment worth rediscovering. Biosphere 2 might have some lessons to offer about managing Biosphere 1  our planet.


A slew of boldfaced tech names, beginning with the ride-sharing platform Lyft, are entering the stock markets. Lyfts main competitor, Uber, along with Pinterest and Slack, may list their shares this year, and possibly Airbnb in 2020. All of these start-ups present themselves as disruptive departures from old norms, but close ties to previous tech generations are crucial to their success.


When I first moved to Southern California, I was struck by the Friday afternoon conversations in which colleagues discussed their weekend hiking plans the way New Yorkers would talk about where they might have brunch. Almost everyone hiked, and they were eager to extol the merits of favorite trails.

I soon came to understand that this reflected something larger: the importance of Californians relationship with the outdoors. The climate was not a punch line, but a reality that shaped lifestyles. Only after years of reading history did I appreciate the extent to which the natural world has always been intrinsic to Californias identity.

So the exuberant embrace of this years super bloom, an exceptional show of wildflowers coloring normally barren hillsides and desert valleys, makes perfect sense. The wildflower hotlines and daily website updates, the Instagram selfies in poppy fields, the pilgrimages to find the rare ghost flower, represent the latest iteration of traditions that date back to the 19th century, when thousands of hikers took to the Southern California foothills every weekend.


The Fed was clearly overoptimistic about the economys prospects, as it has pretty consistently been for the past decade. Its worth noting that throughout that whole period conservative critics of the Fed  the same people now backing Trump  attacked the institution for keeping interest rates too low, not too high. Still, its now clear that the attempt to normalize monetary policy was premature.

But the Feds premature rate hikes arent why the Trump tax cut is failing. How do we know that? Because all those boasts about why the tax cut would work miracles were based on a specific story about what is holding the U.S. economy back. And that story was and is all wrong.

The Trumpist theory  which was, Im sorry to say, endorsed by conservative economists who should have known better  was that there was a huge pile of money sitting outside the U.S. that companies would bring back and invest productively if given the incentive of lower tax rates. But that pile of money was an accounting fiction. And the tax cut didnt give corporations an incentive to build new factories and so on; all it did was induce them to shift their tax-avoidance strategies.

As Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, a casual glance at the data seems to suggest that American companies earn a lot of their profits at their overseas subsidiaries. But a closer look shows that the bulk of these reported profits are in a handful of small countries with low or zero tax rates, like Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland. The companies obviously arent earning huge profits in these tiny economies; theyre just using accounting gimmicks to assign profits earned elsewhere to subsidiaries that may have a few factories, but sometimes consist of little more than a small office, or even just a post-office box.

These basically phony profits then accumulate on the books of the overseas subsidiaries, rather than the home company. But this doesnt affect their ability to invest in America: if Apple wants to spend a billion dollars here, it can always borrow the money using the assets of its Irish subsidiary as collateral. In other words, U.S. taxes werent having any significant effect in deterring real investment in the U.S. economy.

When Trump cut the tax rate, some companies brought money home. But for the most part this had no economic significance. Heres how it works: Apple Ireland transfers some of its assets to Apple U.S.A. Officially, Apple Ireland has reduced its investment spending, while paying a dividend to U.S. investors. In reality, Apple as an entity has the same total profits and the same total assets it did before; it hasnt devoted a single additional dollar to purchases of equipment, R&D, or anything else for its U.S. operations.

Not surprisingly, then, the investment boom Trump economists promised has never materialized. Companies didnt use their tax breaks to invest more; mainly they used them to buy back their own stock. This in turn, put more money in the hands of investors, which gave the economy a temporary boost  although for 2018 as a whole, one of the biggest drivers of faster growth was, believe it or not, higher government spending.


On the face of it, this might seem strange. Why would having an opportunity to act morally in one setting influence your level of moral outrage in another  especially when your identity is secret the entire time?

Our data support the following explanation: People have a subconscious desire to signal their virtue. Even in private, people implicitly ask themselves, If I were being observed, how good would I look?

Consider the participants who were given an opportunity to act morally by sharing money. If they had been observed, their choice would have served as a powerful signal of their virtue (or lack thereof). And as a result, the value of expressing outrage as a virtue signal would decline. After all, if a participant chose to share, she would look virtuous regardless of how much outrage she subsequently expressed toward the selfish person. (And if she chose not to share, she would look dishonorable regardless of how much outrage she later expressed.)

In contrast, the participants who were not given the opportunity to share money had no way to signal their virtue to a hypothetical observer besides getting outraged. So, even though no one was watching, they had a stronger subconscious motivation to express outrage  and, as we found, they reported feeling significantly more outraged.

What our findings show is that asking whether outrage is pure is the wrong question. Even authentic outrage is influenced by implicit strategic calculations. This shouldnt come as a surprise to anyone familiar with evolutionary theories that hypothesize that morality arose precisely as a way of signaling ones trustworthiness in cooperative endeavors.

But this also shouldnt strike you as cynical. In fact, we view our findings optimistically. They suggest that if an individual is motivated by a desire to signal her virtue, that does not necessarily mean she is faking her outrage. Of course, people do sometimes fake or exaggerate their outrage to look good. Our point is that the presence of strategic motives does not itself make a moral reaction inauthentic.

Thats something to keep in mind the next time you are tempted to dismiss something as mere virtue signaling.

Jillian Jordan is a postdoctoral fellow at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern. David Rand is an associate professor at the Sloan School of Management and the department of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


What we saw on a debate team in a high-poverty urban public school was similar. Monthly debate competitions gave the work a clear sense of purpose and urgency. Faculty members and older students mentored the novices. Students told us that debate is like a family. Perhaps most important, debate gave students a chance to speak in their own voices on issues that mattered to them. Inducted into an ancient form of verbal and mental discipline, they discovered a source of personal power.

In essence, two different logics reign in the same buildings. Before the final bell, we treat students as passive recipients of knowledge whose interests and identities matter little. After the final bell  in newspaper, debate, theater, athletics and more  we treat students as people who learn by doing, people who can teach as well as learn, and people whose passions and ideas are worth cultivating. It should come as no surprise that when we asked students to reflect on their high school experiences, it was most often experiences like theater and debate that they cited as having influenced them in profound ways.

The truly powerful core classes that we found  and at every school there were some  echoed what we saw in extracurriculars. Rather than touring students through the textbook, teachers invited students to participate in the authentic work of the field. For example, a skillful science teacher in a high-poverty-district high school offered a course in which her students designed, researched, carried out and wrote up original experiments. While the experiments varied in their sophistication, all students were initiated into what it meant to do science. In turn, this allowed them to understand that science is a messy and uncertain business  much less knowable than it seems when reciting Newtons laws.

Why are classrooms like that one so rare? Its not the teachers fault. The default mode of the classrooms we observed reflects the mold in which public high schools were cast a century ago. Students are batch-processed, sorted into tracks based on perceived ability and awarded credits based on seat time rather than actual learning. Making matters worse are college admissions pressures, state testing, curriculum frameworks that emphasize breadth over depth, simplistic systems of teacher evaluation, large classes, large teacher loads and short class periods. The result is that it often feels as though teachers and students have been conscripted into a game that nobody wants to be playing.

How can we make what happens before the bell more like what happens after it?

Schools need to become much more deeply attached to the world beyond their walls. Extracurriculars gain much of their power from their connections to their associated professional domains. School subjects, in comparison, feel devoid of context. Promising schools tackle this dilemma in different ways: Some use project-based learning to engage students in their local communities; some collaborate with museums, employers and others who can give students experiences in professional domains; still others prioritize hiring teachers who have had experience working in (and not just teaching about) their fields. All of these choices bring meaning to work that is too often taught in a vacuum.

Teachers need both more freedom and more support. They need longer class periods, opportunities for collaboration and teaching loads small enough to allow them to form real relationships with students. They need expectations for topic coverage that permit more opportunities for depth. They need districts that focus less on compliance and more on helping teachers learn in rich ways that parallel how those teachers might teach their students. Finally, teachers need parents who ask, What is my child curious about? rather than How did she do on the test?

Most important of all, high school students need to be granted much more agency, responsibility and choice. While there are some things that everyone should know, much of what will help students in college and beyond are skills: the ability to speak and write persuasively, to reason and engage with one anothers reasoning and to think about core content in complicated ways. Happily, there are multiple paths to achieving these ends. Students can choose what scientific puzzles to explore and what English or history electives to take while still developing a shared foundation of skills.


Cleared of collusion and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything thats evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. Were going to get rid of Obamacare, Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. Its good. Its important.

To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year.

Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them.

Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the partys boilerplate on government and the economy. Im not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and Im not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid, he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that everybodys got to be covered, which he called an un-Republican thing to say. I am going to take care of everybody, he added. I dont care if it costs me votes or not.


It is possible that you didnt know a 24-year-old black woman started the integration of the New York City mass transit system in 1854. Its a very good story that involves some kicking and screaming, a ruined hat and a future president of the United States.

And now shes getting a statue next to Grand Central Station. About time.

Were coming to the end of Womens History Month, and all in all, its been a pretty good celebration. Perhaps a little superior to the one when Donald Trump dropped in on a womens empowerment panel and asked the assembled high achievers whether any of them had ever heard of Susan B. Anthony.

So about Elizabeth Jennings, a Manhattan schoolteacher in the years before the Civil War. She was rushing to church services, where she was supposed to play the organ, when a trolley conductor told her that his car was only for white people and shed have to get off and wait for another ride.

Jennings was fearless. She grabbed onto an open window frame, screaming Murder! when the conductor tried to pull her off. She hung on for dear life until a police officer shoved her onto the sidewalk, soiling her going-to-church dress and smashing her bonnet.


Even here Dubowitz is merely warming to his theme. Freeze Irans foreign exchange reserves? Doable. Expose the immense wealth of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sanction the companies he and other leading regime figures control? Ditto. Unleash lawsuits against companies still doing business with Iran to recover billions of dollars in outstanding terrorism judgments against the country? That, too.

The point isnt to punish Iran for punishments sake. Its to create leverage for a better nuclear deal. Last May, Mike Pompeo set a dozen parameters for an agreement, including unqualified access to U.N. nuclear inspectors, permanent cessation of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, the end of Irans ballistic-missile program, withdrawal of its forces from Syria, and the release of U.S. nationals held in its prisons.

Pompeos demands have been alternatively dismissed as silly or reckless by most of Washingtons foreign policy establishment. But it says something about the debasement of diplomatic expectations  both of what we have a right to demand and what we think we can achieve  that any of it should be controversial.

Non-nuclear states that sponsor terrorism and subscribe to millenarian ideologies should never have access to any part of the nuclear fuel cycle, ever. Any U.S. administration that abdicates the responsibility to do everything it can to prevent such access effectively renounces Americas status as a superpower as well.

Irans G.D.P. is roughly equivalent to that of the greater Boston area, with 17 times the population. The regime may be a force to be reckoned with in the Middle East. But it is hardly a giant on the world stage, immune to any form of economic pressure.

The Trump administration has succeeded in dramatically raising the costs to Iran for its sinister behavior, at no cost to the United States or our allies. Thats the definition of a foreign-policy achievement. Its time to move the needle up again. The longer Hezbollah fighters go unpaid, or the Assad regime unaided, the better off the people of the Middle East will be.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


The automated decision systems that are pervasive in banking, the criminal justice system and the tech sector can easily amplify forms of discrimination that were once attributable to human bias only. The Department of Housing and Urban Development spoke to this problem on Thursday when it charged Facebook with violating the Fair Housing Act of 1968 by permitting advertisers to restrict access to housing ads based on user characteristics like race, religion or national origin.

This HUD filing resembles a similar suit filed last year by fair housing groups with which Facebook forged a sweeping settlement this month . Nevertheless, federal involvement puts tech companies on notice that they can be held accountable for civil rights violations connected with the ostensibly neutral systems they use to decide which readers see which material.

The Fair Housing Act of 1968 was partly intended to compensate for housing discrimination inflicted by the federal government itself, as it had previously shut most African-Americans out of homeownership through redlining. That practice entailed drawing lines around black neighborhoods and declaring them unsafe for federally backed mortgage insurance.

The act outlawed housing discrimination on paper, but the federal government has consistently dragged its feet in enforcing it, leaving most of the work to private groups that have frequently mounted court challenges to housing discrimination  and the governments failure to fight it. In recent years, these groups have increasingly focused on the question of whether online services are replicating longstanding biases by using algorithms to target specific users.


HERAT, Afghanistan  A 2017 wall calendar dangled from a nail over Kawsar Roshans bed on the otherwise blank wall of her room. Best year for me she had written, in curly script, above aerial photos of lakes and waterfalls. She drew a smiley-face next to her wobbly English letters.

The out-of-date calendar was nothing too special, said Kawsar, though she does love waterfalls, especially Niagara Falls  which she saw with her own eyes during that best year.

Kawsar, then 16, saw a lot of places as a member of Afghanistans first-ever girls robotics team. More than any other Afghan girl she knows. Or boy. Or even grown-up, for that matter.

You may remember hearing about that team. In the summer of 2017, Kawsar and five teammates, along with their coach, were denied visas into the United States for a robotics competition in Washington, prompting an international outcry.


Like everybody else, Ive often heard that chefs home refrigerators are famously empty. Because we work so hard, so long, so late, the mythology suggests, we dont ever cook at home. Everybody seems to know, and admire, that our home fridges are echo chambers but for a six-pack of beer and a bottle of hot sauce. I notice I respond to this bit of rock n roll chef hype the same way I do when I read about that supposedly inviolable routine of accomplished and serious writers, the one in which the writer wakes up and writes for four hours and then goes for a walk to clear the mind and then after lunch reads in the afternoon and then goes to the pub for a few drinks before dinner and then retires by the fire before bed.

Which is: Oh, man. Must be nice!

But if you find yourself in the thick of, say, a brisk chef career, with maybe a professional writing gig on the side, as well as the not-negligible project of keeping a home, loaded up with the added considerations of some compelling children in the household whom you might like to see and know before they are gone, you probably have managed to keep a few vegetables in the drawer and a carton of eggs and a bin of cheeses and deli meats at least. I recommend adding a container of this anchovy-garlic dressing to your fridge too, at all times. Its nothing, really  a jar of startlingly flavorful salad dressing essentially  but it does some improbable heavy lifting. And at mealtime, no matter how loosely defined, it can make you feel less like a barn animal at the trough and more like a civilized human at the table. Even if you are standing in front of the fridge with the door open rooting in the drawers at 2:30 in the morning.


Great.

I read about high-profile cases: Chuck Knoblauch, the second baseman who once hit a sportscasters mother in the face with a wild ball. Mackey Sasser, the catcher who couldnt throw back to the pitcher without double-taking.

And then there was Steve Blass, the great pitcher who developed the yips and was sent down to the minors. I dug up Roger Angells 1975 profile of him from The New Yorker and read every word, hoping to uncover some secret that would change my own luck. There was, of course, nothing. Mr. Blass retired early and became a jewelry salesman.At first my team chalked it up to nerves.

Naomi! my coach shouted after I fielded a grounder and then threw it 10 feet to her right at practice. Just relax!

I tried. But the problem with trying to relax is that the more you try, the less relaxed you feel. I tried to take my time. I tried to be natural. I tried to focus on the mechanics; I tried not to focus on the mechanics at all. I tried to think about being loose; I tried to think about throwing hard. I tried really, really hard not to think.

Sometimes it would work for a while. Id land a few good tosses, and hopefulness would creep in. But inevitably the anxiety would catch up to me, and soon enough a ball would sail past my partner, sending her jogging into the distance to retrieve it.

After a particularly rough game, my coach pulled me aside. I had been desperate to tell someone on the team what was happening to me: that I was under some kind of curse, that my baseball skills had apparently gone into a coma, that this wasnt the real me. I thought this was my chance.Michelle Goldberg

Image

Ive been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use liberal as an epithet, but thats basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trumps presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. Ive written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian migr who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.

David Leonhardt

Image

Ive worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago  first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. Ive since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.

My politics are left of center. But Im also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about todays Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges  inequality, climate change, the rise of China  and theyll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


The United States Supreme Court has weighed in on affirmative action in college admissions several times, helping shape the policy through the decades. Here are some of the key cases:

Decided on April 23, 1974

Marco DeFunis Jr. v. Odegaard

Marco DeFunis, a white man, argued that he was denied admission to the University of Washington Law School because the school had prioritized admitting minority students who were less qualified, saying that this violated the Fourteenth Amendments equal protection clause. He sued a state education official as well as the schools admissions committee, and successfully gained admission to the school.

By the time the United States Supreme Court considered the case, DeFunis was already in his last year of law school and the court ruled that the case was moot. Though the court chose not to address the issues within the case, it was the first case heard on affirmative action since the policy was established in the 1960s.

Decided on June 26, 1978

Regents of the University of California v. Bakke

Alan Bakke was rejected twice from the medical school at the University of California, Davis. Mr. Bakke, who is white, argued that the schools affirmative action policy to reserve 16 out of 100 spots for qualified minority students violated the equal protection clause as well as the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The Supreme Court ruled that the racial quota system used by the university did violate the Civil Rights Act and that Mr. Bakke should be admitted. But Justice Lewis F. Powell acknowledged in his opinion that a state had legitimate interests in considering the race of applicants, and that a diverse student body could provide compelling educational benefits.


Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.

WASHINGTON  In a major legal blow to President Trumps push to expand offshore oil and gas development, a federal judge ruled that an executive order by Mr. Trump that lifted an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful.

The decision, by Judge Sharon L. Gleason of the United States District Court for the District of Alaska, concluded late Friday that President Barack Obamas 2015 and 2016 withdrawal of about 120 million acres of Arctic Ocean from drilling will remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by Congress. She wrote that an April 2017 executive order by Mr. Trump revoking the drilling ban is unlawful, as it exceeded the presidents authority.

The decision, which is expected to be appealed in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, immediately reinstates the drilling ban on most of the Arctic Ocean off the coast of Alaska, a pristine region home to endangered species including polar bears and bowhead whales where oil companies have long sought to drill. It also has broader implications for Mr. Trumps effort to push drilling across the American coastline and on public lands.

Specifically, the Arctic Ocean drilling case could give legal ammunition to opponents of Mr. Trumps efforts to roll back protections for two million acres of national monuments created by Mr. Obama and President Bill Clinton .


The La Paloma complaint builds on that argument. It contends that subsidies and mandates for solar and wind power  including rebates for residential solar-panel programs and requirements that growing percentages of utility-scale systems come from carbon-free sources  have left California dependent on energy sources that are unreliable for round-the-clock power.

Critics say Mr. Beal wants the commission to create a subsidy for fossil-fuel plants, paid for by utility customers in their rates, and effectively remove the cost advantage that renewable-energy plants now have. Fossil-fuel plants are better able to ensure a continuous supply of electricity because storage capacity is not yet sufficient to keep solar or wind energy flowing when the sun isnt shining or the wind abates. And one of the commissions primary responsibilities is to ensure the reliability of the grid.

Opposition to the Beal effort has poured in from energy markets in the Eastern and Northeastern United States, California regulators, the state attorney general, environmentalists and consumer groups. They are troubled by the potential impact of a decision siding with Mr. Beal and the possibility that regulators could apply it nationwide.

Despite his low profile, there is little question of Mr. Beals political leanings. He created a pro-Trump super PAC, Save America From Its Government, which published a 2016 newspaper advertisement that was headlined Obamacare: A Crash Course in Government Inefficiency and asked, Is America a communist country? During the presidential campaign that year, Mr. Trump listed him as one of his economic advisers.

And in a postelection interview with The Dallas Morning News, while describing himself as a Democrat on virtually all social issues, Mr. Beal said Mr. Trumps victory was the first time in my lifetime where a step in the right direction has been taken to reduce the government and get it out of peoples lives.

Thats all we need to thrive, he said.

But Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at the nonprofit consumer-advocacy organization Public Citizen, said he had not seen evidence of Mr. Beals pursuing an ideological agenda in the La Paloma case so much as a financial one.


The current surge was totally predictable and the Trump administration chose not to prepare for it. Instead it launched a raft of harsh deterrence measures that were totally ineffective, said Wayne Cornelius, a migration scholar at the University of California, San Diego.

He and other critics said the administration had focused on measures to discourage migrants, including restricting their entry at border stations and requiring some asylum applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases are processed, instead of planning humane border reception facilities and working seriously to diminish the violence and poverty in Central America that is driving the migrations.

The influx has stretched every government agency on the front lines, from the Border Patrol, whose agents encounter migrants after they cross, to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, whose officers normally process them for detention or release, as well as the Health and Human Services Department, charged with the care of children who come across the border without families.

In response to the surge, hundreds of agents are being diverted from ports of entry, where they facilitate international trade, to help process migrants. Immigration officers are being redeployed to the border from duties in the interior, and the government is trying to quickly expand capacity at shelters that take in migrant children.

Kirstjen Nielsen, the Department of Homeland Security secretary, said on Friday that the agency is setting up a crisis-response effort.

The system is in free-fall. D.H.S. is doing everything possible to respond to a growing humanitarian catastrophe while also securing our borders, but we have reached peak capacity and are now forced to pull from other missions to respond to the emergency, she said.


[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]

A 7-year-old Guatemalan girl who died in United States custody last December was suffering from a bacterial infection that was so advanced she probably would have been visibly sick for many hours, said several physicians who reviewed a newly released autopsy report of her death.

By the time the girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, arrived at a childrens hospital in El Paso with seizures and difficulty breathing, she already had severe blood abnormalities, according to a part of the report that summarized her condition in the emergency room of the Childrens Hospital at the Hospitals of Providence Memorial Campus.

The new findings were released on Friday by the El Paso County Office of the Medical Examiner. Customs and Border Protection officials and lawyers for the girls family have sparred over whether the severity of her infection  with a common streptococcus bacteria  should have been recognized and whether she should have been taken for medical care more quickly.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


EL PASO  Beto ORourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation.

Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. ORourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented a moment of truth.

Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Jurez were caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.

He added, This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.

His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Jurez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. ORourkes themes  a unifying vision for bridging divides to unite Americans from all walks of life.




The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


What is it like to be part of the group that has been called the most diverse generation in U.S. history? We asked members of Generation Z to tell us what makes them different from their friends, and to describe their identity. Heres what they had to say.


Therapists, of course, deal with the daily challenges of living just as everyone else does. In fact, this familiarity is at the root of the connection we forge with strangers who trust us with their most intimate stories and secrets. Our training has taught us theories and tools and techniques, but whirring beneath our expertise is the fact that we know just how hard it is to be a person. Which is to say, we still come to work each day as ourselves  with our own sets of vulnerabilities, our own longings and insecurities and our own experiences and histories. Of all my credentials as a therapist, my most significant is that Im a card-carrying member of the human race. Without this humanity, Id be useless to help people.

But revealing this humanity is another matter.

[Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, funny, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section. Sign up for our Sunday Best newsletter.]

Most therapists nowadays use some form of whats known as self-disclosure in their work, whether its sharing some of their own reactions that come up during the session or acknowledging that they watch the TV show a patient keeps referring to. Better to admit that you watch The Bachelor than to feign ignorance and accidentally say Colton Underwoods name when the patient hasnt mentioned him yet.

The question of what to share gets tricky. One therapist I know told a patient whose child had Tourettes syndrome that she, too, had a son with Tourettes, and it deepened their relationship. Another colleague treated a man whose father had taken his own life, but he never revealed to the patient that his own father had done the same. In each situation, theres a calculation to make, a subjective litmus test we use to assess the value of the disclosure: Is this information helpful for the patient to have?

Outside the therapy room, though, what are the rules? Here are some things you dont want to do in public as a therapist: Cry to a friend in a restaurant or say, I know, Mom! petulantly into your cellphone while in line at Costco with a patient nearby. If youre a respected child psychologist, like a colleague of mine, you dont want to be standing in the bakery when your 4-year-old has a meltdown about not getting another cookie, culminating with the ear-piercing proclamation Youre the worst mom ever! while your 6-year-old patient and her mother look on, aghast.


Before dawn on April 4, 1994 , Abigail Alling and Mark Van Thillo slipped across the foothills of Arizonas Santa Catalina Mountains. They made their way to a looming monument of geodesic domes and pyramids known as Biosphere 2. The three-acre complex contained a miniature rain forest, a mangrove, a desert and a coral reef  along with seven people who had been sealed inside for a month.

Ms. Alling and Mr. Van Thillo had recently emerged from a two-year stay in Biosphere 2. Later, after they were arrested, they told reporters that they feared for the safety of the people inside. They were determined to bring the mission to an end.

They pulled open five of Biosphere 2s doors and broke their seals. As outdoor air rushed in, they made their way to the ventilation system, where they smashed some glass panels.

That break-in effectively marked the end of one of the strangest experiments in the history of science. No one had ever built a sealed ecological world as big as Biosphere 2, and no one had ever survived so long inside one. The project would later be dismissed as a folly and a waste of effort. And yet, 25 years on, its an experiment worth rediscovering. Biosphere 2 might have some lessons to offer about managing Biosphere 1  our planet.


A slew of boldfaced tech names, beginning with the ride-sharing platform Lyft, are entering the stock markets. Lyfts main competitor, Uber, along with Pinterest and Slack, may list their shares this year, and possibly Airbnb in 2020. All of these start-ups present themselves as disruptive departures from old norms, but close ties to previous tech generations are crucial to their success.


When I first moved to Southern California, I was struck by the Friday afternoon conversations in which colleagues discussed their weekend hiking plans the way New Yorkers would talk about where they might have brunch. Almost everyone hiked, and they were eager to extol the merits of favorite trails.

I soon came to understand that this reflected something larger: the importance of Californians relationship with the outdoors. The climate was not a punch line, but a reality that shaped lifestyles. Only after years of reading history did I appreciate the extent to which the natural world has always been intrinsic to Californias identity.

So the exuberant embrace of this years super bloom, an exceptional show of wildflowers coloring normally barren hillsides and desert valleys, makes perfect sense. The wildflower hotlines and daily website updates, the Instagram selfies in poppy fields, the pilgrimages to find the rare ghost flower, represent the latest iteration of traditions that date back to the 19th century, when thousands of hikers took to the Southern California foothills every weekend.


The Fed was clearly overoptimistic about the economys prospects, as it has pretty consistently been for the past decade. Its worth noting that throughout that whole period conservative critics of the Fed  the same people now backing Trump  attacked the institution for keeping interest rates too low, not too high. Still, its now clear that the attempt to normalize monetary policy was premature.

But the Feds premature rate hikes arent why the Trump tax cut is failing. How do we know that? Because all those boasts about why the tax cut would work miracles were based on a specific story about what is holding the U.S. economy back. And that story was and is all wrong.

The Trumpist theory  which was, Im sorry to say, endorsed by conservative economists who should have known better  was that there was a huge pile of money sitting outside the U.S. that companies would bring back and invest productively if given the incentive of lower tax rates. But that pile of money was an accounting fiction. And the tax cut didnt give corporations an incentive to build new factories and so on; all it did was induce them to shift their tax-avoidance strategies.

As Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, a casual glance at the data seems to suggest that American companies earn a lot of their profits at their overseas subsidiaries. But a closer look shows that the bulk of these reported profits are in a handful of small countries with low or zero tax rates, like Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland. The companies obviously arent earning huge profits in these tiny economies; theyre just using accounting gimmicks to assign profits earned elsewhere to subsidiaries that may have a few factories, but sometimes consist of little more than a small office, or even just a post-office box.

These basically phony profits then accumulate on the books of the overseas subsidiaries, rather than the home company. But this doesnt affect their ability to invest in America: if Apple wants to spend a billion dollars here, it can always borrow the money using the assets of its Irish subsidiary as collateral. In other words, U.S. taxes werent having any significant effect in deterring real investment in the U.S. economy.

When Trump cut the tax rate, some companies brought money home. But for the most part this had no economic significance. Heres how it works: Apple Ireland transfers some of its assets to Apple U.S.A. Officially, Apple Ireland has reduced its investment spending, while paying a dividend to U.S. investors. In reality, Apple as an entity has the same total profits and the same total assets it did before; it hasnt devoted a single additional dollar to purchases of equipment, R&D, or anything else for its U.S. operations.

Not surprisingly, then, the investment boom Trump economists promised has never materialized. Companies didnt use their tax breaks to invest more; mainly they used them to buy back their own stock. This in turn, put more money in the hands of investors, which gave the economy a temporary boost  although for 2018 as a whole, one of the biggest drivers of faster growth was, believe it or not, higher government spending.


On the face of it, this might seem strange. Why would having an opportunity to act morally in one setting influence your level of moral outrage in another  especially when your identity is secret the entire time?

Our data support the following explanation: People have a subconscious desire to signal their virtue. Even in private, people implicitly ask themselves, If I were being observed, how good would I look?

Consider the participants who were given an opportunity to act morally by sharing money. If they had been observed, their choice would have served as a powerful signal of their virtue (or lack thereof). And as a result, the value of expressing outrage as a virtue signal would decline. After all, if a participant chose to share, she would look virtuous regardless of how much outrage she subsequently expressed toward the selfish person. (And if she chose not to share, she would look dishonorable regardless of how much outrage she later expressed.)

In contrast, the participants who were not given the opportunity to share money had no way to signal their virtue to a hypothetical observer besides getting outraged. So, even though no one was watching, they had a stronger subconscious motivation to express outrage  and, as we found, they reported feeling significantly more outraged.

What our findings show is that asking whether outrage is pure is the wrong question. Even authentic outrage is influenced by implicit strategic calculations. This shouldnt come as a surprise to anyone familiar with evolutionary theories that hypothesize that morality arose precisely as a way of signaling ones trustworthiness in cooperative endeavors.

But this also shouldnt strike you as cynical. In fact, we view our findings optimistically. They suggest that if an individual is motivated by a desire to signal her virtue, that does not necessarily mean she is faking her outrage. Of course, people do sometimes fake or exaggerate their outrage to look good. Our point is that the presence of strategic motives does not itself make a moral reaction inauthentic.

Thats something to keep in mind the next time you are tempted to dismiss something as mere virtue signaling.

Jillian Jordan is a postdoctoral fellow at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern. David Rand is an associate professor at the Sloan School of Management and the department of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


What we saw on a debate team in a high-poverty urban public school was similar. Monthly debate competitions gave the work a clear sense of purpose and urgency. Faculty members and older students mentored the novices. Students told us that debate is like a family. Perhaps most important, debate gave students a chance to speak in their own voices on issues that mattered to them. Inducted into an ancient form of verbal and mental discipline, they discovered a source of personal power.

In essence, two different logics reign in the same buildings. Before the final bell, we treat students as passive recipients of knowledge whose interests and identities matter little. After the final bell  in newspaper, debate, theater, athletics and more  we treat students as people who learn by doing, people who can teach as well as learn, and people whose passions and ideas are worth cultivating. It should come as no surprise that when we asked students to reflect on their high school experiences, it was most often experiences like theater and debate that they cited as having influenced them in profound ways.

The truly powerful core classes that we found  and at every school there were some  echoed what we saw in extracurriculars. Rather than touring students through the textbook, teachers invited students to participate in the authentic work of the field. For example, a skillful science teacher in a high-poverty-district high school offered a course in which her students designed, researched, carried out and wrote up original experiments. While the experiments varied in their sophistication, all students were initiated into what it meant to do science. In turn, this allowed them to understand that science is a messy and uncertain business  much less knowable than it seems when reciting Newtons laws.

Why are classrooms like that one so rare? Its not the teachers fault. The default mode of the classrooms we observed reflects the mold in which public high schools were cast a century ago. Students are batch-processed, sorted into tracks based on perceived ability and awarded credits based on seat time rather than actual learning. Making matters worse are college admissions pressures, state testing, curriculum frameworks that emphasize breadth over depth, simplistic systems of teacher evaluation, large classes, large teacher loads and short class periods. The result is that it often feels as though teachers and students have been conscripted into a game that nobody wants to be playing.

How can we make what happens before the bell more like what happens after it?

Schools need to become much more deeply attached to the world beyond their walls. Extracurriculars gain much of their power from their connections to their associated professional domains. School subjects, in comparison, feel devoid of context. Promising schools tackle this dilemma in different ways: Some use project-based learning to engage students in their local communities; some collaborate with museums, employers and others who can give students experiences in professional domains; still others prioritize hiring teachers who have had experience working in (and not just teaching about) their fields. All of these choices bring meaning to work that is too often taught in a vacuum.

Teachers need both more freedom and more support. They need longer class periods, opportunities for collaboration and teaching loads small enough to allow them to form real relationships with students. They need expectations for topic coverage that permit more opportunities for depth. They need districts that focus less on compliance and more on helping teachers learn in rich ways that parallel how those teachers might teach their students. Finally, teachers need parents who ask, What is my child curious about? rather than How did she do on the test?

Most important of all, high school students need to be granted much more agency, responsibility and choice. While there are some things that everyone should know, much of what will help students in college and beyond are skills: the ability to speak and write persuasively, to reason and engage with one anothers reasoning and to think about core content in complicated ways. Happily, there are multiple paths to achieving these ends. Students can choose what scientific puzzles to explore and what English or history electives to take while still developing a shared foundation of skills.


Cleared of collusion and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything thats evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. Were going to get rid of Obamacare, Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. Its good. Its important.

To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year.

Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them.

Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the partys boilerplate on government and the economy. Im not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and Im not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid, he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that everybodys got to be covered, which he called an un-Republican thing to say. I am going to take care of everybody, he added. I dont care if it costs me votes or not.


It is possible that you didnt know a 24-year-old black woman started the integration of the New York City mass transit system in 1854. Its a very good story that involves some kicking and screaming, a ruined hat and a future president of the United States.

And now shes getting a statue next to Grand Central Station. About time.

Were coming to the end of Womens History Month, and all in all, its been a pretty good celebration. Perhaps a little superior to the one when Donald Trump dropped in on a womens empowerment panel and asked the assembled high achievers whether any of them had ever heard of Susan B. Anthony.

So about Elizabeth Jennings, a Manhattan schoolteacher in the years before the Civil War. She was rushing to church services, where she was supposed to play the organ, when a trolley conductor told her that his car was only for white people and shed have to get off and wait for another ride.

Jennings was fearless. She grabbed onto an open window frame, screaming Murder! when the conductor tried to pull her off. She hung on for dear life until a police officer shoved her onto the sidewalk, soiling her going-to-church dress and smashing her bonnet.


Even here Dubowitz is merely warming to his theme. Freeze Irans foreign exchange reserves? Doable. Expose the immense wealth of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sanction the companies he and other leading regime figures control? Ditto. Unleash lawsuits against companies still doing business with Iran to recover billions of dollars in outstanding terrorism judgments against the country? That, too.

The point isnt to punish Iran for punishments sake. Its to create leverage for a better nuclear deal. Last May, Mike Pompeo set a dozen parameters for an agreement, including unqualified access to U.N. nuclear inspectors, permanent cessation of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, the end of Irans ballistic-missile program, withdrawal of its forces from Syria, and the release of U.S. nationals held in its prisons.

Pompeos demands have been alternatively dismissed as silly or reckless by most of Washingtons foreign policy establishment. But it says something about the debasement of diplomatic expectations  both of what we have a right to demand and what we think we can achieve  that any of it should be controversial.

Non-nuclear states that sponsor terrorism and subscribe to millenarian ideologies should never have access to any part of the nuclear fuel cycle, ever. Any U.S. administration that abdicates the responsibility to do everything it can to prevent such access effectively renounces Americas status as a superpower as well.

Irans G.D.P. is roughly equivalent to that of the greater Boston area, with 17 times the population. The regime may be a force to be reckoned with in the Middle East. But it is hardly a giant on the world stage, immune to any form of economic pressure.

The Trump administration has succeeded in dramatically raising the costs to Iran for its sinister behavior, at no cost to the United States or our allies. Thats the definition of a foreign-policy achievement. Its time to move the needle up again. The longer Hezbollah fighters go unpaid, or the Assad regime unaided, the better off the people of the Middle East will be.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


The automated decision systems that are pervasive in banking, the criminal justice system and the tech sector can easily amplify forms of discrimination that were once attributable to human bias only. The Department of Housing and Urban Development spoke to this problem on Thursday when it charged Facebook with violating the Fair Housing Act of 1968 by permitting advertisers to restrict access to housing ads based on user characteristics like race, religion or national origin.

This HUD filing resembles a similar suit filed last year by fair housing groups with which Facebook forged a sweeping settlement this month . Nevertheless, federal involvement puts tech companies on notice that they can be held accountable for civil rights violations connected with the ostensibly neutral systems they use to decide which readers see which material.

The Fair Housing Act of 1968 was partly intended to compensate for housing discrimination inflicted by the federal government itself, as it had previously shut most African-Americans out of homeownership through redlining. That practice entailed drawing lines around black neighborhoods and declaring them unsafe for federally backed mortgage insurance.

The act outlawed housing discrimination on paper, but the federal government has consistently dragged its feet in enforcing it, leaving most of the work to private groups that have frequently mounted court challenges to housing discrimination  and the governments failure to fight it. In recent years, these groups have increasingly focused on the question of whether online services are replicating longstanding biases by using algorithms to target specific users.


HERAT, Afghanistan  A 2017 wall calendar dangled from a nail over Kawsar Roshans bed on the otherwise blank wall of her room. Best year for me she had written, in curly script, above aerial photos of lakes and waterfalls. She drew a smiley-face next to her wobbly English letters.

The out-of-date calendar was nothing too special, said Kawsar, though she does love waterfalls, especially Niagara Falls  which she saw with her own eyes during that best year.

Kawsar, then 16, saw a lot of places as a member of Afghanistans first-ever girls robotics team. More than any other Afghan girl she knows. Or boy. Or even grown-up, for that matter.

You may remember hearing about that team. In the summer of 2017, Kawsar and five teammates, along with their coach, were denied visas into the United States for a robotics competition in Washington, prompting an international outcry.


Like everybody else, Ive often heard that chefs home refrigerators are famously empty. Because we work so hard, so long, so late, the mythology suggests, we dont ever cook at home. Everybody seems to know, and admire, that our home fridges are echo chambers but for a six-pack of beer and a bottle of hot sauce. I notice I respond to this bit of rock n roll chef hype the same way I do when I read about that supposedly inviolable routine of accomplished and serious writers, the one in which the writer wakes up and writes for four hours and then goes for a walk to clear the mind and then after lunch reads in the afternoon and then goes to the pub for a few drinks before dinner and then retires by the fire before bed.

Which is: Oh, man. Must be nice!

But if you find yourself in the thick of, say, a brisk chef career, with maybe a professional writing gig on the side, as well as the not-negligible project of keeping a home, loaded up with the added considerations of some compelling children in the household whom you might like to see and know before they are gone, you probably have managed to keep a few vegetables in the drawer and a carton of eggs and a bin of cheeses and deli meats at least. I recommend adding a container of this anchovy-garlic dressing to your fridge too, at all times. Its nothing, really  a jar of startlingly flavorful salad dressing essentially  but it does some improbable heavy lifting. And at mealtime, no matter how loosely defined, it can make you feel less like a barn animal at the trough and more like a civilized human at the table. Even if you are standing in front of the fridge with the door open rooting in the drawers at 2:30 in the morning.


Great.

I read about high-profile cases: Chuck Knoblauch, the second baseman who once hit a sportscasters mother in the face with a wild ball. Mackey Sasser, the catcher who couldnt throw back to the pitcher without double-taking.

And then there was Steve Blass, the great pitcher who developed the yips and was sent down to the minors. I dug up Roger Angells 1975 profile of him from The New Yorker and read every word, hoping to uncover some secret that would change my own luck. There was, of course, nothing. Mr. Blass retired early and became a jewelry salesman.At first my team chalked it up to nerves.

Naomi! my coach shouted after I fielded a grounder and then threw it 10 feet to her right at practice. Just relax!

I tried. But the problem with trying to relax is that the more you try, the less relaxed you feel. I tried to take my time. I tried to be natural. I tried to focus on the mechanics; I tried not to focus on the mechanics at all. I tried to think about being loose; I tried to think about throwing hard. I tried really, really hard not to think.

Sometimes it would work for a while. Id land a few good tosses, and hopefulness would creep in. But inevitably the anxiety would catch up to me, and soon enough a ball would sail past my partner, sending her jogging into the distance to retrieve it.

After a particularly rough game, my coach pulled me aside. I had been desperate to tell someone on the team what was happening to me: that I was under some kind of curse, that my baseball skills had apparently gone into a coma, that this wasnt the real me. I thought this was my chance.


9 U.S.

Can The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your Questions


9 U.S.

Can The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your Questions


This nontraditional recipe features the ultimate paella cheat: The dish cooks in the oven, as opposed to being actively monitored on the stovetop over a flame. Cooking it this way wont get you the familiar socarrat on the bottom of the skillet, but the wonderfully crispy bits that develop at the edges of the roasting pan are delightful in their own way.

Featured in: Adapted, Adjusted, But Always (Kind Of) Paella.


This nontraditional recipe features the ultimate paella cheat: The dish cooks in the oven, as opposed to being actively monitored on the stovetop over a flame. Cooking it this way wont get you the familiar socarrat on the bottom of the skillet, but the wonderfully crispy bits that develop at the edges of the roasting pan are delightful in their own way.

Featured in: Adapted, Adjusted, But Always (Kind Of) Paella.


This nontraditional recipe features the ultimate paella cheat: The dish cooks in the oven, as opposed to being actively monitored on the stovetop over a flame. Cooking it this way wont get you the familiar socarrat on the bottom of the skillet, but the wonderfully crispy bits that develop at the edges of the roasting pan are delightful in their own way.

Featured in: Adapted, Adjusted, But Always (Kind Of) Paella.


This is a no-recipe recipe, a recipe without an ingredients list or steps. It invites you to improvise in the kitchen.

Set a pot of nicely salted water over high heat to boil. When it does, add the fettuccine, then get the rest of your dinner ready as it cooks to al dente. Chop up a fistful of mint and a small shallot if you have one (half a small onion if you dont), mixing them into a cup or two of fresh ricotta, then loosening the mixture with a healthy drizzle of extra-virgin olive oil and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add some salt and pepper to taste, perhaps a shake of red pepper. When the pastas done, whichll be about the same time as youre done with the sauce, drain it in a colander and add it to a big warm bowl, then fold the cheese into it, mixing gently. Serve to adoration.

Sam Sifton features a no-recipe recipe every Wednesday in his What to Cook newsletter. Sign up to receive it. You can find more no-recipe recipes here.


Paillard is the French word for a thin slice of meat that cooks quickly. (Sometimes, a thicker piece of meat is pounded with a mallet to make it thinner.) This recipe is an easy way to make a chicken paillard without much pounding. Essentially, you butterfly a boneless, skinless chicken breast, slicing horizontally to make a flat, heart-shaped breast, then pound it lightly. Unfortunately, a chicken breast is often dry and tasteless, but it doesnt have to be. Seasoned and cooked correctly, it should be tasty and moist. A dab of tapenade, a traditional Provenal black olive paste, makes a perfect accompaniment.

Featured in: You Deserve More Succulent Chicken.


A Chinese take-out staple, hot and sour soup is super easy to create at home  and comes together in just 15 minutes. This weeknight version bolsters the traditional mushrooms and tofu with the addition of store-bought pork dumplings, but you could just as easily use chicken or vegetable dumplings, depending on your preference. Cornstarch gives the broth its velvety texture, vinegar adds verve, and white pepper adds subtle complexity, though black pepper is a perfectly fine substitute. Adjust the seasoning with extra soy sauce, ginger and vinegar for a more assertive soup.


Baked ziti is meant to feed a crowd, and this one surely does. Cheater meatballs made with uncased Italian sausage are strewn throughout the sauce for heft, and baby spinach lends a pop of color. Because ricotta has a tendency to dry out when baked, crme frache is added to ensure a more velvety texture, but sour cream thinned out with a little heavy cream works just as well. The whole dish can be assembled and baked ahead the day before. Bring it to room temperature before warming, then broil right before serving for crisp edges.


This is a no-recipe recipe, a recipe without an ingredients list or steps. It invites you to improvise in the kitchen. Put a Dutch oven over medium-high heat on your stove, then add a glug of olive oil and saut in it a handful of chopped onions, a couple diced ribs of celery, a diced jalapeo and a small diced red pepper. When the mixture is supersoft, add a few cloves of minced garlic and cook for a couple more minutes, then dump a pound and a half of ground beef into the pot  ideally the sort that is 20 percent fat  and stir and sizzle until it is well browned, about 10 minutes. Bring the heat down a bit and add a lot of tomato paste  say 3 tablespoons, maybe 4  and let it get a little toasty before adding a cup or more of pured canned tomatoes. Cook that down for a few minutes, then add quite a few glugs of Worcestershire sauce and hot sauce to taste, and continue cooking until the mixture is quite thick, another 15 or 20 minutes. Season to taste and serve on toasted potato buns. I like steamed broccoli on the side, a walk for the dog and bed.

Sam Sifton features a no-recipe recipe every Wednesday in his What to Cook newsletter. Sign up to receive it. You can find more no-recipe recipes here.


A staple of any fast-casual restaurant, broccoli-cheddar soup has somewhat of a cult following on the internet. Thicker than cream of broccoli, this roux-thickened soup can be pured completely smooth or left chunky and rustic. Either way, be sure to use the sharpest Cheddar available (white or orange work here). Itll provide richness in addition to a necessary acidity.

Learn: How to Make Soup


This creamy, vibrant soup is a Thai-inspired version of the pured squash soup you know and love. The green curry paste, which is relatively easy to find in the international aisle of the grocery store, along with coconut milk and fish sauce, perfectly complements the butternut squash's sweetness. But it's the topping  a spin on miang kham, a snack in Thailand and Laos full of peanuts, coconut and chiles  that's the real standout.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Sorry! We're currently performing maintenance on the site. Certain actions are not working at this time. Check back later.


Oils and vinegars: Extra-virgin olive oil, neutral cooking oil (such as canola or grapeseed), red-wine vinegar, white vinegar or white-wine vinegar.

Cans and jars: Tuna in olive oil, tomato paste, diced tomatoes, tomato sauce, chicken stock or vegetable stock (box-packed tastes better than canned). A good-tasting, simple tomato sauce can become a soup or a stew, or make a quick dinner with pasta or polenta.

Spices and dried herbs: Kosher salt, red-pepper flakes, ground cayenne, curry powder, bay leaves, black peppercorns, sweet paprika, ground cinnamon, ground cumin, garlic powder or granulated garlic, dried thyme and dried oregano. This selection will take you through everything from a basic beef stew to Saturday morning pancakes to Thanksgiving dinner.

Grains and starches: Long-grain white rice, one or two other grains (such as quinoa or farro), dry pasta (one long, one short and chunky), plain bread crumbs, crackers, canned beans (white beans, black beans and-or chickpeas), dry lentils.

Nuts and nut butters: Walnuts, almonds, roasted peanuts, peanut butter (smooth and crunchy).

Sweeteners: Honey, maple syrup, granulated sugar.

Preserves and pickles: Fruit jams and preserves, anchovies.

Condiments and sauces: Basic vinaigrette, mustard (yellow or Dijon), mayonnaise, ketchup, hot sauce, salsa, soy sauce.

Produce: Garlic, onions, all-purpose potatoes (such as Yukon Gold), lemons, shelf-stable tofu (Essential for vegetarians, Expanded for others).

Dairy: Eggs, unsalted butter, cheeses (Cheddar, Jack or Colby, Parmesan), milk or cream for cooking (not skim).

Freezer: Chicken parts, sausages, thick fish fillets, shrimp, thick-sliced bread (for toast), spinach (and other vegetables such as corn and peas), berries (and other fruit such as peaches and mango). Some fruits and vegetables take particularly well to freezing  and in most growing seasons, the quality is better than fresh. Frozen fruit is useful for baking and smoothies.

Baking: All-purpose flour, cornmeal, rolled oats, cornstarch, baking soda, baking powder, pure vanilla extract, light brown sugar, dark brown sugar, confectioners sugar, bittersweet baking chocolate, semisweet chocolate chips, raisins or another dried fruit, cocoa powder. With these ingredients on hand, thousands of cookies, brownies, cakes, muffins, quick breads and other sweets can be produced without a trip to the store.


How Does a Pressure Cooker Work?

Dating to the 17th century, the first pressurized cooking pot was developed by the French physicist Denis Papin. Basically a pot with a tight-sealing lid and a steam valve, a pressure cooker traps the steam rising from the boiling liquid in the pot, which, in turn, raises the temperature at which that liquid boils. (For example, without pressure, water at sea level boils at 212 degrees. Under pressure, that temperature can rise to as much as 266 degrees.) The higher temperature, combined with the pressure in the pot that forces the hot steam into the ingredients, cooks food much faster than traditional methods.

A pressure cooker works at different pressure levels, each one changing the boiling point of the liquid. With most pressure cookers today, the pressure gauge is preset for two options. At low pressure (10 pounds per square inch, or p.s.i.), the internal temperature reaches 235 degrees. At high pressure (15 pounds p.s.i.), it can reach 250 degrees. A steam valve allows excess steam to escape, keeping the pressure cooker from exploding, but, as countless tales of split pea soups on the ceiling attest, it has historically been an imperfect method. Modern pressure cookers  stovetop and electric  are quite safe. They dont explode as your grandmothers may have. But, by eliminating the guesswork, electric pressure cookers take the anxiety out of the process.

For a long time, stovetop pressure cookers were the only style available. As the name suggests, theyre heated on the stove, and set to high or low pressure. As the pressure inside increases, the gauge on its lid pops up, indicating that the inside of the pot has reached the optimal pressure. Once there, the heat needs to be adjusted to keep the pots temperature and pressure constant. This is to avoid over-pressurizing (which can burn the food inside or, in extreme cases, explode). It also keeps the pressure and temperature from falling before the food is done. Monitoring the pressure isnt hard, but you do need to keep an eye on it.

With an electric pressure cooker, everything is done automatically. Once it reaches the correct pressure and temperature, it will stay there without the cooks having to do anything. For that reason, you can set it and walk away, much as you would with a slow cooker. And dont worry: It wont explode. It will simply turn itself off if the pressure or temperature ever rise too high.


















2010(National Cyber Security Center)11011520



(Ciaran Martin)










(National Cyber Security Center)(Ciaran Martin)

15


Grindr

 (Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States)

Grindr

9300Grindr60%1.5


Hess

_____



Lukas Barth-Tuttas/EPA, via Shutterstock




(Steven Mnuchin)(Robert Lighthizer)









(Imperial Twilight Twilight: The Opium War and the End of Chinas Last Golden Age)(Stephen R. Platt)19

 Ng Han Guan/Associated Press



1839







(Devjit Srivastava)

65

(University College London)(James Cox)

FAAH-OUT






(Hofstra University)(Julian G. Ku)

(Agence France-Presse)

2012




2012

7








66

(Science Olympiad)

2013(MITs Research Science Institute)3%90  (Looking for Luke)


















Coco Keith Hiro



Karen




1%2%







1964(Charles de Gaulle)21

55

 Pool photo by Francois Mori






Liveleak

Liveleak2006YouTube1516002000

Liveleak2006OgrishRotten.comStile ProjectRotten.comOgrish911

Ogrish(Sue Tait)



Ogrish


YouTubeYouTube



USCASU

C






22





(Bill Langlois)(Sox)

68

(Red Sox)

Care.Coach


1950

50







30060050







(Alastair Dutton)


252020124

David Cho1000





 

 25

 










(Southeast Asian association)(Emmanuel Macron)



20186(Five Star Movement)(League)


(Patrick Chappatte)

Twitter






5





5(Center for Strategic and International Studies)Avaaz(Russia Today)YouTube


2016


























9 U.S.

Can The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your Questions






(Ekaterina Schulmann)(Council for Civil Society and Human Rights)12

2 Mladen Antonov/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images



1999(Boris Yeltsin)

2 Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times




2005

1973

16






(Karl Kusserow)

(Peabody Essex Museum)55  (Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art)52599

(College of William & Mary)(Alan Braddock)



2007 Valerie Hegarty, Brooklyn Museum






  (Kaplan)(Venture for America)

1000

 Guerin Blask for The New York Times

Vox(Ezra Klein)Making Sense(Sam Harris)(Joe Rogan)

6.5(Democratic National Committee)100




2017(Saud al-Qahtani)(Jamal Khashoggi)NSO

120

National Security AgencyNSA(Mossad)

NSO(DarkMatter)

NSO Giuseppe Cacace/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images



(FBI)NSAFBI











Yardbird

Yardbird

Yardbird

Yardbird

In Situ(Corey Lee)

2011Yardbird Nicola Longobardi for The New York Times

(Matt Abergel)Lindsay Jang

Yardbird






20




1029737 Max 812

(Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee)(Nurcahyo Utomo)1



7811




 Edward Wong/The New York Times

117






1. 

2. 

3. 



4. 




By Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham

We dissect Jordan Peeles new psychological thriller, Us, and discuss the films central question (WITHOUT SPOILERS): Are any of us ever truly free from the past?

Also, were going on a short hiatus. Happy spring, and well be back in your ears soon.


Michelle Goldberg

Image

Ive been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use liberal as an epithet, but thats basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trumps presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. Ive written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian migr who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.

David Leonhardt

Image

Ive worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago  first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. Ive since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.

My politics are left of center. But Im also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about todays Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges  inequality, climate change, the rise of China  and theyll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


A look back through the decades shows what went right in the early years of affirmative action in college admissions, but also what can go wrong even with the best of intentions.

Those who were able, through luck or experience or hard work, to adapt to the culture of institutions that had long been pillars of the white establishment succeeded by most conventional measures. Others could not break through because of personal trauma, family troubles, financial issues, culture shock  the kind of problems felt by many white students as well, but compounded by being in such a tiny minority. And universities at the time, they said, did not have the will or the knowledge to help.

I think its a fair question to ask: Did we really understand or know what we were doing, or could we have predicted what the issues would be? said Robert L. Kirkpatrick Jr., who at the time was dean of admissions at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., which was part of these early efforts. The answer is no. I think we were instinctively trying to do the right thing.

Columbia  an Ivy League campus right next to Harlem  was a particularly revelatory setting. Perhaps nowhere else were the divisions more striking between the privilege inside university gates and the troubles and demands of black people outside them.

The New York Times tracked down many of the nearly 50 black students in Columbias Class of 1973, who arrived on campus as freshmen in 1969. Some of them have remained close friends and helped locate others from directories and photographs.


The United States Supreme Court has weighed in on affirmative action in college admissions several times, helping shape the policy through the decades. Here are some of the key cases:

Decided on April 23, 1974

Marco DeFunis Jr. v. Odegaard

Marco DeFunis, a white man, argued that he was denied admission to the University of Washington Law School because the school had prioritized admitting minority students who were less qualified, saying that this violated the Fourteenth Amendments equal protection clause. He sued a state education official as well as the schools admissions committee, and successfully gained admission to the school.

By the time the United States Supreme Court considered the case, DeFunis was already in his last year of law school and the court ruled that the case was moot. Though the court chose not to address the issues within the case, it was the first case heard on affirmative action since the policy was established in the 1960s.

Decided on June 26, 1978

Regents of the University of California v. Bakke

Alan Bakke was rejected twice from the medical school at the University of California, Davis. Mr. Bakke, who is white, argued that the schools affirmative action policy to reserve 16 out of 100 spots for qualified minority students violated the equal protection clause as well as the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

The Supreme Court ruled that the racial quota system used by the university did violate the Civil Rights Act and that Mr. Bakke should be admitted. But Justice Lewis F. Powell acknowledged in his opinion that a state had legitimate interests in considering the race of applicants, and that a diverse student body could provide compelling educational benefits.


Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.

WASHINGTON  In a major legal blow to President Trumps push to expand offshore oil and gas development, a federal judge ruled that an executive order by Mr. Trump that lifted an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful.

The decision, by Judge Sharon L. Gleason of the United States District Court for the District of Alaska, concluded late Friday that President Barack Obamas 2015 and 2016 withdrawal of about 120 million acres of Arctic Ocean from drilling will remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by Congress. She wrote that an April 2017 executive order by Mr. Trump revoking the drilling ban is unlawful, as it exceeded the presidents authority.

The decision, which is expected to be appealed in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, immediately reinstates the drilling ban on most of the Arctic Ocean off the coast of Alaska, a pristine region home to endangered species including polar bears and bowhead whales where oil companies have long sought to drill. It also has broader implications for Mr. Trumps effort to push drilling across the American coastline and on public lands.

Specifically, the Arctic Ocean drilling case could give legal ammunition to opponents of Mr. Trumps efforts to roll back protections for two million acres of national monuments created by Mr. Obama and President Bill Clinton .


The La Paloma complaint builds on that argument. It contends that subsidies and mandates for solar and wind power  including rebates for residential solar-panel programs and requirements that growing percentages of utility-scale systems come from carbon-free sources  have left California dependent on energy sources that are unreliable for round-the-clock power.

Critics say Mr. Beal wants the commission to create a subsidy for fossil-fuel plants, paid for by utility customers in their rates, and effectively remove the cost advantage that renewable-energy plants now have. Fossil-fuel plants are better able to ensure a continuous supply of electricity because storage capacity is not yet sufficient to keep solar or wind energy flowing when the sun isnt shining or the wind abates. And one of the commissions primary responsibilities is to ensure the reliability of the grid.

Opposition to the Beal effort has poured in from energy markets in the Eastern and Northeastern United States, California regulators, the state attorney general, environmentalists and consumer groups. They are troubled by the potential impact of a decision siding with Mr. Beal and the possibility that regulators could apply it nationwide.

Despite his low profile, there is little question of Mr. Beals political leanings. He created a pro-Trump super PAC, Save America From Its Government, which published a 2016 newspaper advertisement that was headlined Obamacare: A Crash Course in Government Inefficiency and asked, Is America a communist country? During the presidential campaign that year, Mr. Trump listed him as one of his economic advisers.

And in a postelection interview with The Dallas Morning News, while describing himself as a Democrat on virtually all social issues, Mr. Beal said Mr. Trumps victory was the first time in my lifetime where a step in the right direction has been taken to reduce the government and get it out of peoples lives.

Thats all we need to thrive, he said.

But Tyson Slocum, director of the energy program at the nonprofit consumer-advocacy organization Public Citizen, said he had not seen evidence of Mr. Beals pursuing an ideological agenda in the La Paloma case so much as a financial one.


The current surge was totally predictable and the Trump administration chose not to prepare for it. Instead it launched a raft of harsh deterrence measures that were totally ineffective, said Wayne Cornelius, a migration scholar at the University of California, San Diego.

He and other critics said the administration had focused on measures to discourage migrants, including restricting their entry at border stations and requiring some asylum applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases are processed, instead of planning humane border reception facilities and working seriously to diminish the violence and poverty in Central America that is driving the migrations.

The influx has stretched every government agency on the front lines, from the Border Patrol, whose agents encounter migrants after they cross, to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, whose officers normally process them for detention or release, as well as the Health and Human Services Department, charged with the care of children who come across the border without families.

In response to the surge, hundreds of agents are being diverted from ports of entry, where they facilitate international trade, to help process migrants. Immigration officers are being redeployed to the border from duties in the interior, and the government is trying to quickly expand capacity at shelters that take in migrant children.

Kirstjen Nielsen, the Department of Homeland Security secretary, said on Friday that the agency is setting up a crisis-response effort.

The system is in free-fall. D.H.S. is doing everything possible to respond to a growing humanitarian catastrophe while also securing our borders, but we have reached peak capacity and are now forced to pull from other missions to respond to the emergency, she said.


[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]

A 7-year-old Guatemalan girl who died in United States custody last December was suffering from a bacterial infection that was so advanced she probably would have been visibly sick for many hours, said several physicians who reviewed a newly released autopsy report of her death.

By the time the girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, arrived at a childrens hospital in El Paso with seizures and difficulty breathing, she already had severe blood abnormalities, according to a part of the report that summarized her condition in the emergency room of the Childrens Hospital at the Hospitals of Providence Memorial Campus.

The new findings were released on Friday by the El Paso County Office of the Medical Examiner. Customs and Border Protection officials and lawyers for the girls family have sparred over whether the severity of her infection  with a common streptococcus bacteria  should have been recognized and whether she should have been taken for medical care more quickly.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


[Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.]

Unlike in 2016, when the Democratic donor class rallied to Hillary Clinton, or 2008, when givers lined up with Mrs. Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards, many of the partys wealthiest figures remain firmly on the sidelines, serving as perhaps the biggest check on the role of big money in 2020 to date.

That has given an advantage to Mr. ORourke and Mr. Sanders, who are banking on small donations. Those two, plus Ms. Harris, who has a strong small-donor network and has been aggressively courting larger contributors, are widely expected to raise the most in the first quarter.

Several 2020 hopefuls have spent recent weeks canvassing the country, from Dallas to Miami, Chicago to Los Angeles, to raise the money needed in a crowded primary that is expected to easily cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

At fund-raising events, attendees say, most 2020 candidates typically are delivering more intimate versions of their stump speeches, pitching their vision for the country along with a heavy dosage on their political viability and pathway to the presidency, amid caterers circulating with drinks and snacks.

Last Tuesday, Ms. Harris was in the tony Washington neighborhood of Kalorama at an event where hosts were asked to raise at least $10,000 (although the price points were not listed on the front of at least one version of the emailed invitation). The Saturday before that, Mr. Booker was feted at the home of Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey as the singer Jon Bon Jovi circulated in the crowd ahead of a three-course dinner that pulled in $300,000, according to a person familiar with the event. And before that, Senator Amy Klobuchar was in Chicago asking for money at the home of a former Goldman Sachs banker who later served as ambassador to Canada, Bruce A. Heyman.

In between, donors are hearing from the candidates by phone. A lot.

When I see a 202 number these days, I dont usually answer it, said Amber Mostyn, a Houston-based attorney and prominent Democratic fund-raiser, joking about the Washington area code and the number of candidates who have reached out for help.


EL PASO  Beto ORourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation.

Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. ORourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented a moment of truth.

Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Jurez were caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.

He added, This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.

His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Jurez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. ORourkes themes  a unifying vision for bridging divides to unite Americans from all walks of life.




The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


The new season of KUWTK, as Keeping Up With the Kardashians is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the familys related businesses. Hes not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it.

If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. Hes a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence, said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!

I told Kim that Kanyes involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist . So, its basically like that but for business, Kim said. Hell have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.

The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. He said, I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table, Kris said.

Keeping Up With the Kardashians couldve been a gigantic hit and still faded like The Osbournes, another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even The Apprentice, which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this, Seacrest said.

But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show  and her family  had staying power. I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals, she said.

Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mothers expectations, Kim didnt hesitate. Everything she wanted happened, she said.


What is it like to be part of the group that has been called the most diverse generation in U.S. history? We asked members of Generation Z to tell us what makes them different from their friends, and to describe their identity. Heres what they had to say.


Therapists, of course, deal with the daily challenges of living just as everyone else does. In fact, this familiarity is at the root of the connection we forge with strangers who trust us with their most intimate stories and secrets. Our training has taught us theories and tools and techniques, but whirring beneath our expertise is the fact that we know just how hard it is to be a person. Which is to say, we still come to work each day as ourselves  with our own sets of vulnerabilities, our own longings and insecurities and our own experiences and histories. Of all my credentials as a therapist, my most significant is that Im a card-carrying member of the human race. Without this humanity, Id be useless to help people.

But revealing this humanity is another matter.

[Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, funny, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section. Sign up for our Sunday Best newsletter.]

Most therapists nowadays use some form of whats known as self-disclosure in their work, whether its sharing some of their own reactions that come up during the session or acknowledging that they watch the TV show a patient keeps referring to. Better to admit that you watch The Bachelor than to feign ignorance and accidentally say Colton Underwoods name when the patient hasnt mentioned him yet.

The question of what to share gets tricky. One therapist I know told a patient whose child had Tourettes syndrome that she, too, had a son with Tourettes, and it deepened their relationship. Another colleague treated a man whose father had taken his own life, but he never revealed to the patient that his own father had done the same. In each situation, theres a calculation to make, a subjective litmus test we use to assess the value of the disclosure: Is this information helpful for the patient to have?

Outside the therapy room, though, what are the rules? Here are some things you dont want to do in public as a therapist: Cry to a friend in a restaurant or say, I know, Mom! petulantly into your cellphone while in line at Costco with a patient nearby. If youre a respected child psychologist, like a colleague of mine, you dont want to be standing in the bakery when your 4-year-old has a meltdown about not getting another cookie, culminating with the ear-piercing proclamation Youre the worst mom ever! while your 6-year-old patient and her mother look on, aghast.


Before dawn on April 4, 1994 , Abigail Alling and Mark Van Thillo slipped across the foothills of Arizonas Santa Catalina Mountains. They made their way to a looming monument of geodesic domes and pyramids known as Biosphere 2. The three-acre complex contained a miniature rain forest, a mangrove, a desert and a coral reef  along with seven people who had been sealed inside for a month.

Ms. Alling and Mr. Van Thillo had recently emerged from a two-year stay in Biosphere 2. Later, after they were arrested, they told reporters that they feared for the safety of the people inside. They were determined to bring the mission to an end.

They pulled open five of Biosphere 2s doors and broke their seals. As outdoor air rushed in, they made their way to the ventilation system, where they smashed some glass panels.

That break-in effectively marked the end of one of the strangest experiments in the history of science. No one had ever built a sealed ecological world as big as Biosphere 2, and no one had ever survived so long inside one. The project would later be dismissed as a folly and a waste of effort. And yet, 25 years on, its an experiment worth rediscovering. Biosphere 2 might have some lessons to offer about managing Biosphere 1  our planet.


A slew of boldfaced tech names, beginning with the ride-sharing platform Lyft, are entering the stock markets. Lyfts main competitor, Uber, along with Pinterest and Slack, may list their shares this year, and possibly Airbnb in 2020. All of these start-ups present themselves as disruptive departures from old norms, but close ties to previous tech generations are crucial to their success.


When I first moved to Southern California, I was struck by the Friday afternoon conversations in which colleagues discussed their weekend hiking plans the way New Yorkers would talk about where they might have brunch. Almost everyone hiked, and they were eager to extol the merits of favorite trails.

I soon came to understand that this reflected something larger: the importance of Californians relationship with the outdoors. The climate was not a punch line, but a reality that shaped lifestyles. Only after years of reading history did I appreciate the extent to which the natural world has always been intrinsic to Californias identity.

So the exuberant embrace of this years super bloom, an exceptional show of wildflowers coloring normally barren hillsides and desert valleys, makes perfect sense. The wildflower hotlines and daily website updates, the Instagram selfies in poppy fields, the pilgrimages to find the rare ghost flower, represent the latest iteration of traditions that date back to the 19th century, when thousands of hikers took to the Southern California foothills every weekend.


The Fed was clearly overoptimistic about the economys prospects, as it has pretty consistently been for the past decade. Its worth noting that throughout that whole period conservative critics of the Fed  the same people now backing Trump  attacked the institution for keeping interest rates too low, not too high. Still, its now clear that the attempt to normalize monetary policy was premature.

But the Feds premature rate hikes arent why the Trump tax cut is failing. How do we know that? Because all those boasts about why the tax cut would work miracles were based on a specific story about what is holding the U.S. economy back. And that story was and is all wrong.

The Trumpist theory  which was, Im sorry to say, endorsed by conservative economists who should have known better  was that there was a huge pile of money sitting outside the U.S. that companies would bring back and invest productively if given the incentive of lower tax rates. But that pile of money was an accounting fiction. And the tax cut didnt give corporations an incentive to build new factories and so on; all it did was induce them to shift their tax-avoidance strategies.

As Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, a casual glance at the data seems to suggest that American companies earn a lot of their profits at their overseas subsidiaries. But a closer look shows that the bulk of these reported profits are in a handful of small countries with low or zero tax rates, like Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland. The companies obviously arent earning huge profits in these tiny economies; theyre just using accounting gimmicks to assign profits earned elsewhere to subsidiaries that may have a few factories, but sometimes consist of little more than a small office, or even just a post-office box.

These basically phony profits then accumulate on the books of the overseas subsidiaries, rather than the home company. But this doesnt affect their ability to invest in America: if Apple wants to spend a billion dollars here, it can always borrow the money using the assets of its Irish subsidiary as collateral. In other words, U.S. taxes werent having any significant effect in deterring real investment in the U.S. economy.

When Trump cut the tax rate, some companies brought money home. But for the most part this had no economic significance. Heres how it works: Apple Ireland transfers some of its assets to Apple U.S.A. Officially, Apple Ireland has reduced its investment spending, while paying a dividend to U.S. investors. In reality, Apple as an entity has the same total profits and the same total assets it did before; it hasnt devoted a single additional dollar to purchases of equipment, R&D, or anything else for its U.S. operations.

Not surprisingly, then, the investment boom Trump economists promised has never materialized. Companies didnt use their tax breaks to invest more; mainly they used them to buy back their own stock. This in turn, put more money in the hands of investors, which gave the economy a temporary boost  although for 2018 as a whole, one of the biggest drivers of faster growth was, believe it or not, higher government spending.


On the face of it, this might seem strange. Why would having an opportunity to act morally in one setting influence your level of moral outrage in another  especially when your identity is secret the entire time?

Our data support the following explanation: People have a subconscious desire to signal their virtue. Even in private, people implicitly ask themselves, If I were being observed, how good would I look?

Consider the participants who were given an opportunity to act morally by sharing money. If they had been observed, their choice would have served as a powerful signal of their virtue (or lack thereof). And as a result, the value of expressing outrage as a virtue signal would decline. After all, if a participant chose to share, she would look virtuous regardless of how much outrage she subsequently expressed toward the selfish person. (And if she chose not to share, she would look dishonorable regardless of how much outrage she later expressed.)

In contrast, the participants who were not given the opportunity to share money had no way to signal their virtue to a hypothetical observer besides getting outraged. So, even though no one was watching, they had a stronger subconscious motivation to express outrage  and, as we found, they reported feeling significantly more outraged.

What our findings show is that asking whether outrage is pure is the wrong question. Even authentic outrage is influenced by implicit strategic calculations. This shouldnt come as a surprise to anyone familiar with evolutionary theories that hypothesize that morality arose precisely as a way of signaling ones trustworthiness in cooperative endeavors.

But this also shouldnt strike you as cynical. In fact, we view our findings optimistically. They suggest that if an individual is motivated by a desire to signal her virtue, that does not necessarily mean she is faking her outrage. Of course, people do sometimes fake or exaggerate their outrage to look good. Our point is that the presence of strategic motives does not itself make a moral reaction inauthentic.

Thats something to keep in mind the next time you are tempted to dismiss something as mere virtue signaling.

Jillian Jordan is a postdoctoral fellow at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern. David Rand is an associate professor at the Sloan School of Management and the department of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


What we saw on a debate team in a high-poverty urban public school was similar. Monthly debate competitions gave the work a clear sense of purpose and urgency. Faculty members and older students mentored the novices. Students told us that debate is like a family. Perhaps most important, debate gave students a chance to speak in their own voices on issues that mattered to them. Inducted into an ancient form of verbal and mental discipline, they discovered a source of personal power.

In essence, two different logics reign in the same buildings. Before the final bell, we treat students as passive recipients of knowledge whose interests and identities matter little. After the final bell  in newspaper, debate, theater, athletics and more  we treat students as people who learn by doing, people who can teach as well as learn, and people whose passions and ideas are worth cultivating. It should come as no surprise that when we asked students to reflect on their high school experiences, it was most often experiences like theater and debate that they cited as having influenced them in profound ways.

The truly powerful core classes that we found  and at every school there were some  echoed what we saw in extracurriculars. Rather than touring students through the textbook, teachers invited students to participate in the authentic work of the field. For example, a skillful science teacher in a high-poverty-district high school offered a course in which her students designed, researched, carried out and wrote up original experiments. While the experiments varied in their sophistication, all students were initiated into what it meant to do science. In turn, this allowed them to understand that science is a messy and uncertain business  much less knowable than it seems when reciting Newtons laws.

Why are classrooms like that one so rare? Its not the teachers fault. The default mode of the classrooms we observed reflects the mold in which public high schools were cast a century ago. Students are batch-processed, sorted into tracks based on perceived ability and awarded credits based on seat time rather than actual learning. Making matters worse are college admissions pressures, state testing, curriculum frameworks that emphasize breadth over depth, simplistic systems of teacher evaluation, large classes, large teacher loads and short class periods. The result is that it often feels as though teachers and students have been conscripted into a game that nobody wants to be playing.

How can we make what happens before the bell more like what happens after it?

Schools need to become much more deeply attached to the world beyond their walls. Extracurriculars gain much of their power from their connections to their associated professional domains. School subjects, in comparison, feel devoid of context. Promising schools tackle this dilemma in different ways: Some use project-based learning to engage students in their local communities; some collaborate with museums, employers and others who can give students experiences in professional domains; still others prioritize hiring teachers who have had experience working in (and not just teaching about) their fields. All of these choices bring meaning to work that is too often taught in a vacuum.

Teachers need both more freedom and more support. They need longer class periods, opportunities for collaboration and teaching loads small enough to allow them to form real relationships with students. They need expectations for topic coverage that permit more opportunities for depth. They need districts that focus less on compliance and more on helping teachers learn in rich ways that parallel how those teachers might teach their students. Finally, teachers need parents who ask, What is my child curious about? rather than How did she do on the test?

Most important of all, high school students need to be granted much more agency, responsibility and choice. While there are some things that everyone should know, much of what will help students in college and beyond are skills: the ability to speak and write persuasively, to reason and engage with one anothers reasoning and to think about core content in complicated ways. Happily, there are multiple paths to achieving these ends. Students can choose what scientific puzzles to explore and what English or history electives to take while still developing a shared foundation of skills.


Cleared of collusion and flush with victory, President Trump is a man unleashed, ready to tackle everything thats evaded him over the last two years. His first target is health care. Were going to get rid of Obamacare, Trump said at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. And I said the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great health care. Its good. Its important.

To that end, Trump had directed the Justice Department on Monday to seek the invalidation of the entire law, backing a federal district judge in Texas who declared it unconstitutional late last year.

Unraveling the Affordable Care Act would deal a catastrophic blow to the safety net. The health exchanges and new insurance regulations? Gone. Medicaid expansion, which even in its truncated form has reached people in 36 states? Gone. The host of protections for people who get health care through jobs and private insurers? Gone. Republican elites might cheer this destruction, but soon enough they would face millions of voters who pulled levers in 2016 believing that Trump and the Republican Party would protect them.

Remember, Trump did not run for president as an orthodox conservative Republican. He embraced social programs and so-called entitlements, rejecting the partys boilerplate on government and the economy. Im not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and Im not going to cut Medicare or Medicaid, he said during the campaign. Elaborating on health care, he told CBS News that everybodys got to be covered, which he called an un-Republican thing to say. I am going to take care of everybody, he added. I dont care if it costs me votes or not.


It is possible that you didnt know a 24-year-old black woman started the integration of the New York City mass transit system in 1854. Its a very good story that involves some kicking and screaming, a ruined hat and a future president of the United States.

And now shes getting a statue next to Grand Central Station. About time.

Were coming to the end of Womens History Month, and all in all, its been a pretty good celebration. Perhaps a little superior to the one when Donald Trump dropped in on a womens empowerment panel and asked the assembled high achievers whether any of them had ever heard of Susan B. Anthony.

So about Elizabeth Jennings, a Manhattan schoolteacher in the years before the Civil War. She was rushing to church services, where she was supposed to play the organ, when a trolley conductor told her that his car was only for white people and shed have to get off and wait for another ride.

Jennings was fearless. She grabbed onto an open window frame, screaming Murder! when the conductor tried to pull her off. She hung on for dear life until a police officer shoved her onto the sidewalk, soiling her going-to-church dress and smashing her bonnet.


Even here Dubowitz is merely warming to his theme. Freeze Irans foreign exchange reserves? Doable. Expose the immense wealth of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sanction the companies he and other leading regime figures control? Ditto. Unleash lawsuits against companies still doing business with Iran to recover billions of dollars in outstanding terrorism judgments against the country? That, too.

The point isnt to punish Iran for punishments sake. Its to create leverage for a better nuclear deal. Last May, Mike Pompeo set a dozen parameters for an agreement, including unqualified access to U.N. nuclear inspectors, permanent cessation of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, the end of Irans ballistic-missile program, withdrawal of its forces from Syria, and the release of U.S. nationals held in its prisons.

Pompeos demands have been alternatively dismissed as silly or reckless by most of Washingtons foreign policy establishment. But it says something about the debasement of diplomatic expectations  both of what we have a right to demand and what we think we can achieve  that any of it should be controversial.

Non-nuclear states that sponsor terrorism and subscribe to millenarian ideologies should never have access to any part of the nuclear fuel cycle, ever. Any U.S. administration that abdicates the responsibility to do everything it can to prevent such access effectively renounces Americas status as a superpower as well.

Irans G.D.P. is roughly equivalent to that of the greater Boston area, with 17 times the population. The regime may be a force to be reckoned with in the Middle East. But it is hardly a giant on the world stage, immune to any form of economic pressure.

The Trump administration has succeeded in dramatically raising the costs to Iran for its sinister behavior, at no cost to the United States or our allies. Thats the definition of a foreign-policy achievement. Its time to move the needle up again. The longer Hezbollah fighters go unpaid, or the Assad regime unaided, the better off the people of the Middle East will be.

The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.


The automated decision systems that are pervasive in banking, the criminal justice system and the tech sector can easily amplify forms of discrimination that were once attributable to human bias only. The Department of Housing and Urban Development spoke to this problem on Thursday when it charged Facebook with violating the Fair Housing Act of 1968 by permitting advertisers to restrict access to housing ads based on user characteristics like race, religion or national origin.

This HUD filing resembles a similar suit filed last year by fair housing groups with which Facebook forged a sweeping settlement this month . Nevertheless, federal involvement puts tech companies on notice that they can be held accountable for civil rights violations connected with the ostensibly neutral systems they use to decide which readers see which material.

The Fair Housing Act of 1968 was partly intended to compensate for housing discrimination inflicted by the federal government itself, as it had previously shut most African-Americans out of homeownership through redlining. That practice entailed drawing lines around black neighborhoods and declaring them unsafe for federally backed mortgage insurance.

The act outlawed housing discrimination on paper, but the federal government has consistently dragged its feet in enforcing it, leaving most of the work to private groups that have frequently mounted court challenges to housing discrimination  and the governments failure to fight it. In recent years, these groups have increasingly focused on the question of whether online services are replicating longstanding biases by using algorithms to target specific users.


HERAT, Afghanistan  A 2017 wall calendar dangled from a nail over Kawsar Roshans bed on the otherwise blank wall of her room. Best year for me she had written, in curly script, above aerial photos of lakes and waterfalls. She drew a smiley-face next to her wobbly English letters.

The out-of-date calendar was nothing too special, said Kawsar, though she does love waterfalls, especially Niagara Falls  which she saw with her own eyes during that best year.

Kawsar, then 16, saw a lot of places as a member of Afghanistans first-ever girls robotics team. More than any other Afghan girl she knows. Or boy. Or even grown-up, for that matter.

You may remember hearing about that team. In the summer of 2017, Kawsar and five teammates, along with their coach, were denied visas into the United States for a robotics competition in Washington, prompting an international outcry.


Like everybody else, Ive often heard that chefs home refrigerators are famously empty. Because we work so hard, so long, so late, the mythology suggests, we dont ever cook at home. Everybody seems to know, and admire, that our home fridges are echo chambers but for a six-pack of beer and a bottle of hot sauce. I notice I respond to this bit of rock n roll chef hype the same way I do when I read about that supposedly inviolable routine of accomplished and serious writers, the one in which the writer wakes up and writes for four hours and then goes for a walk to clear the mind and then after lunch reads in the afternoon and then goes to the pub for a few drinks before dinner and then retires by the fire before bed.

Which is: Oh, man. Must be nice!

But if you find yourself in the thick of, say, a brisk chef career, with maybe a professional writing gig on the side, as well as the not-negligible project of keeping a home, loaded up with the added considerations of some compelling children in the household whom you might like to see and know before they are gone, you probably have managed to keep a few vegetables in the drawer and a carton of eggs and a bin of cheeses and deli meats at least. I recommend adding a container of this anchovy-garlic dressing to your fridge too, at all times. Its nothing, really  a jar of startlingly flavorful salad dressing essentially  but it does some improbable heavy lifting. And at mealtime, no matter how loosely defined, it can make you feel less like a barn animal at the trough and more like a civilized human at the table. Even if you are standing in front of the fridge with the door open rooting in the drawers at 2:30 in the morning.


Great.

I read about high-profile cases: Chuck Knoblauch, the second baseman who once hit a sportscasters mother in the face with a wild ball. Mackey Sasser, the catcher who couldnt throw back to the pitcher without double-taking.

And then there was Steve Blass, the great pitcher who developed the yips and was sent down to the minors. I dug up Roger Angells 1975 profile of him from The New Yorker and read every word, hoping to uncover some secret that would change my own luck. There was, of course, nothing. Mr. Blass retired early and became a jewelry salesman.At first my team chalked it up to nerves.

Naomi! my coach shouted after I fielded a grounder and then threw it 10 feet to her right at practice. Just relax!

I tried. But the problem with trying to relax is that the more you try, the less relaxed you feel. I tried to take my time. I tried to be natural. I tried to focus on the mechanics; I tried not to focus on the mechanics at all. I tried to think about being loose; I tried to think about throwing hard. I tried really, really hard not to think.

Sometimes it would work for a while. Id land a few good tosses, and hopefulness would creep in. But inevitably the anxiety would catch up to me, and soon enough a ball would sail past my partner, sending her jogging into the distance to retrieve it.

After a particularly rough game, my coach pulled me aside. I had been desperate to tell someone on the team what was happening to me: that I was under some kind of curse, that my baseball skills had apparently gone into a coma, that this wasnt the real me. I thought this was my chance.


