https://breitbart.com/entertainment/2019/03/29/bette-midler-little-mermaid-lindsey-graham-has-no-spine/
Bette Midler: ‘Little Mermaid’ Lindsey Graham Has No Spine
Actress Bette Midler attacked Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) over his staunch support for President Donald Trump’s agenda, describing Graham as a “Little Mermaid” with no spine.

Graham, who was a fierce critic of Donald Trump and refused to endorse him in the 2016 presidential election, said earlier this week he was grateful to the president for meeting with him over major policy objectives such as immigration and Syria.

“Lindsey Graham says: ‘President Trump has been good to me in the sense that he’s allowed me in his world,'” Midler said. “Is he kidding? I’d call him Little Mermaid, but Mermaids have spines!”

Lindsey Graham says: “President Trump has been good to me in the sense that he's allowed me in his world." Is he kidding? I’d call him Little Mermaid, but Mermaids have spines! — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) March 29, 2019

Midler has repeatedly attacked Graham. Last November, she complained about Graham’s supposedly inadequate response to Trump’s firing of Attorney General Jeff Session’s, after he previously declared that there would be “holy hell to pay” if Trump were to do so.

#LIndsey?? @LindseyGrahamSC ? Are you there?? Come on Lindsey, we're waiting to hear from you! Here, in 2017, you said there'd be holy hell to pay if Sessions were fired…Where's the holy hell, huh?? Lindsey?? Mr. Graham?? …anybody seen Lindsey Graham?? No? Huh. https://t.co/MU2i1cjZ9M — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) November 10, 2018

The 72-year-old actress remains one of Hollywood’s most fervent anti-Trump fanatics. Last year, she even fantasized about seeing Trump and his family hanged “good and high” should he be found guilty by FBI Special Counsel Robert Mueller of colluding with Russia during his election campaign.

Last Sunday, Mueller concluded that there was no evidence that Trump or his campaign associates were guilty of any wrongdoing, despite receiving “multiple offers” of assistance from Russian agents or intermediaries.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.


