https://breitbart.com/latin-america/2019/03/12/venezuela-blackout-maduro-blames-u-s-electronic-coup-warns-further-attacks/
Maduro: Power in Venezuela Will Restored 'Little by Little'
Venezuelan dictator Nicolás Maduro continues to blame the United States for the nationwide blackout that has further crippled the crisis-stricken country and has warned that “more attacks” could be on the way.

In a television address on Monday, the socialist dictator said that said that the recovery from power outages would take place “little by little,” adding that the outage was an “electronic coup” carried out by “criminal minds” on behalf of the U.S. government.

“The cruel attack that the U.S. empire has carried out against the electrical system has been detected and progressively reversed, thanks to the effort of Venezuelan experts and hackers who are working hard to restore tranquility to People,” he wrote on Twitter.

“I ratify my admiration for the heroic Venezuelan people who resist with courage and bravery this art attack against the tranquility of the fatherland,” he continued. “I call on social and political organizations to maintain active resistance that promotes solidarity and protects the peace.”

Ordené mantener la suspensión de actividades escolares y laborales durante los días martes 12 y miércoles 13 de marzo para que, junto a nuestro pueblo, podamos avanzar de forma definitiva en la estabilización plena de la vida tranquila y de la paz que merecemos. pic.twitter.com/UJ3WJ5p5Yf — Nicolás Maduro (@NicolasMaduro) March 12, 2019

The power outage began last Friday, with around 70 percent of the country plunged into darkness and receiving little to no electricity, making it the longest and most severe blackout in Venezuelan history.

The situation that has already sparked considerable civil unrest, with reports of street demonstrations, mass lootings and the closure of most essential services. Meanwhile, dozens of people have died as a result of the blackout as hospital equipment failed without power.

Last week, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo rejected any claims of U.S. involvement, saying the crisis was a result of the Maduro regime’s “incompetence.”


