Boeing was sued Thursday in what may be the first U.S. claim tied to the crash of one of its 737 Max 8 jets in Ethiopia this month.

The lawsuit was filed in federal court in Chicago, where Boeing is headquartered, on behalf of Huguette Debets. Debets is a representative of the family of Jackson Musoni, a United Nations employee who was among the 157 people killed when Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 plummeted into a farm field shortly after taking off from Addis Ababa on March 10.

The lawsuit alleges the crash was caused by a new flight-control system incorporated in the Boeing 737 Max 8.

The 737 Max 8, Boeings newest plane, was involved in two crashes in less than five months before aviation safety authorities worldwide, including in the United States, grounded the aircraft. On Oct. 29, 189 people were killed when a 737 Max 8, flying under the banner of Lion Air, crashed into the Java Sea in Indonesia.

Several lawsuits also have been filed against Boeing related to the Lion Air crash.

Boeing, having knowledge of all the reports of dangerous conditions and the previous accident that killed over 150 people, should have taken steps to protect the flying public, said Steve Marks, an attorney with the Miami-based firm Podhurst Orseck, who is representing Musonis relatives. This accident happened when it should have never happened.

[FAA and Boeing defend oversight of 737 Max]

The lawsuit was filed a day after Boeing, grappling with the fallout of the two deadly crashes, sought to reassure the public of the safety of its product, and outlined upgrades to the aircrafts software and increased training for pilots who fly the 737 Max.

The Justice Departments criminal division is looking into the 737 Max, and the Transportation Departments inspector general is investigating the way the certification was handled, as is Congress and a special committee set up by Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao.

Congress on Wednesday held the first of what are likely to be several hearings on the Federal Aviation Administrations oversight and approval process of the aircraft.

The lawsuit filed Thursday alleges that the Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed because, among other things, Boeing defectively designed a new flight control system for the Boeing 737 Max 8 that automatically and erroneously pushes the aircrafts nose down, and because Boeing failed to warn of the defect.

The aircraft was defective in design, had inadequate warnings, and was unreasonably dangerous, the lawsuit said, adding that Boeing negligently failed to warn the public, the airlines, the pilots, the users, and the intended third-party beneficiaries of the 7387 Max 8s unreasonably dangerous and defective design, including that the aircraft automatically and uncontrollably dived partly because of erroneous sensors.

It also claims that the FAA delegated authority to Boeing to approve portions of the aircraft certification process and assisted Boeing in rushing the delivery of the Max 8, resulting in several crucial flaws in the safety analysis report Boeing ultimately delivered to the FAA.

Boeing did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the lawsuit. The acting FAA administrator defended the governments oversight approach at the Wednesday hearing.

[With its ties in Washington, Boeing has taken over more and more of the FAAs job]

Debets is a representative of Musonis family, including three young children. Musoni, 31, a citizen of Rwanda, was a field coordinator with the United Nations Refugee Agency based in Sudans East Darfur, according to the agency. He had been working with the United Nations since 2014. He was one of 19 U.N. aid workers and staffers who were on board Flight 302, many of whom were traveling to Nairobi for the U.N. Environment Assembly.

Complaints have been piling up against Boeing since the Lion Air crash in October.

[In deep grief: Aid workers, U.N. staff, tourists among victims in Ethiopia plane crash]

More than 30 relatives of those who died in the Lion Air crash have sued the company. In lawsuits filed last week, the families of two Lion Air passengers alleged that Boeing failed to warn pilots and airlines about a flight-control problem on the Max aircraft, and also pointed to flaws in the certification process of the jetliner, handled by the FAA. Marks, who also represents the families of 20 Lion Air victims, said his clients are also planning to sue the federal government.

More relatives of the victims in both crashes are expected to file lawsuits against the company in coming weeks. Charles Herrmann, a Seattle-based aviation attorney, said relatives of the Ethiopian crash victims have been contacting American attorneys for representation. Herrmann is representing families of 17 Lion Air crash victims.

Preliminary investigations have noted similarities between the two crashes.

[More families sue Boeing over Lion Air crash, citing defective design and inadequate safety warnings]

Satellite data showed the Ethiopian Airlines jet had ascended and descended multiple times after takeoff, mirroring the behavior of the Lion Air flight.

In that crash, an angle of attack sensor, which measures where the nose is pointing, was showing erroneous readings throughout the short time the plane was airborne. With the sensor insisting the nose was too high, the automated system called Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS, kicked in, sending the plane down as the cockpit crew unsuccessfully fought to regain control, according to a preliminary investigative report from November.

The possibility that the same scenario occurred in the Ethiopia crash prompted aviation authorities across the world to ground the aircraft.

Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg earlier this week expressed condolences for the victims in both crashes, saying the company is humbled and learning from this experience.

Since the moment we learned of the recent 737 Max accidents, weve thought about the lives lost and the impact it has on people around the globe and throughout the aerospace community. All those involved have had to deal with unimaginable pain. Were humbled by their resilience and inspired by their courage, Muilenburg said.

Read more:

Southwest Airlines Boeing 737 Max makes emergency landing in Orlando

Federal investigators looking into Boeing 737 Max following 2 crashes in less than five months




Jakelia Baker, 17, decided to attend Penn State Beaver. (Zoey Ellison)

For Jakelia Baker, deciding which college to attend was not a simple assignment  because the Georgia high school student had been accepted by more than 50 of them, with about $1.3 million in scholarship awards.

The 17-year-old senior from Augusta applied to more than 65 schools and got into about 55 by her count, including Clemson, Oklahoma and Michigan State.

On Friday afternoon, she made a decision, signing a letter of intent to attend Penn State Beaver on an athletic scholarship.

[After overcoming homelessness, this teen was accepted to 17 colleges]

Jakelia, who is set to graduate as valedictorian in May from Lucy Craft Laney High School in Augusta, said she started applying to colleges the summer leading up to her senior year. The teen said she used college admission apps, such as Common App, to send applications to a number of schools because I had no idea where I was going.

Then the acceptance letters started pouring in.

It was very nice, she said in a phone interview with The Washington Post. It really boosted my self-esteem because I didnt think I would be able to get into that many schools.

CONGRATULATIONS J.Baker. Awesome Laney Student #PENNSTATEUNIVERSITY #Volleyball #LaneyValedictorian #over1MillionScholarships #ProudofthisStudent Posted by Rosie Rose on Friday, March 29, 2019

Jakelia has spent the past four years earning a 4.1 GPA and dominating athletics and other extracurricular activities at her high school.

She said she has participated in choir and marching band  as the drum major  math team and high school yearbook. She was a student ambassador and president of the student council and National Honor Society. She played a number of sports  she was captain of the volleyball team and also played basketball, golf, tennis and soccer. And she took honors and Advanced Placement classes, she said.

Now she is headed to Pennsylvania to play volleyball.

She said she chose Penn State Beaver because they feel like my second family already."

When asked how she found the time to do it all, Jakelia said she learned how to be disciplined and manage her time from her mother, who served in the military. Jakelia said she would use spare moments between classes or games to do homework and fill out college applications.

If you continue to keep pushing, you will succeed, she said.

Her mother, Denise Baker, said she encourages Jakelia and her siblings to do their best and live life without regrets.

Im just proud to be her mom, she told The Post. Her work ethic is tremendous. She can procrastinate at times, but whatever she sets her mind to, she will do it.

Jakelia said the hard work, the payoff  and national media attention  have taught her that there is no place too small to be discovered and that parents, teachers and friends will do their part to help you succeed, as well.

Read more:

A student brought his baby to class because he didnt have child care. His professor lent a hand.

Mom of new twins thought her husband was deployed far away  then he showed up at the hospital

Parents locked their baby and keys in a car  and needed inmates to help them break in




Some of the Facebook and Instagram ads that the House Intelligence Committee has linked to a Russian effort to disrupt the American political process during the 2016 presidential election. (Jon Elswick/AP)

When it comes to social media, government officials and the American public have grown wary of outside actors  and rightly so.

According to Attorney General William P. Barr, special counsel Robert S. Mueller IIIs report found conclusive evidence of Russian disinformation and social media campaigns designed to sow social discord, eventually with the aim of interfering with the 2016 election.

But disinformation spread by foreign governments is not the only issue stoking worries.

Efforts to safeguard against election interference have ignited concerns over First Amendment protections and censorship and brought a new wave of criticism, often pitting citizens, top lawmakers and tech giants against one other.

Evaluating the responsibility of social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, and the human and algorithmic choices they make about the voices heard, and what they are able to say, will be a vital part of maintaining American confidence in the election system heading into 2020, says Jameel Jaffer, director of the Knight First Amendment Institute.

They shape and distort public discourse through their decision-making, Jaffer said. But how do those decisions affect the integrity of the democratic process?

[Facebook ramps up effort to combat fake images, video]

President Trump has helped fuel a conservative movement that increasingly alleges it is being suppressed by social media platforms.

Tech companies maintain that they are neutral, insisting that they do not censor content on the basis of political affiliation. They do, however, review and restrict content deemed offensive, threatening or criminal  and, thats entirely legal under the First Amendment.

The Constitution limits government action. Privately owned companies have a set of rights that cannot be significantly restricted. Congress further elected to shield social platforms from liability for statements made on the site. Under the Communications Decency Act, a site is more akin to a bulletin board than to a publisher who makes editorial decisions, though it reserves the right to remove content that violates its terms and conditions. (For host sites to exist in their current form, these protections are essential.)

But the law is beginning to reconsider whether social networking sites function as modern-day equivalents of public squares.

In 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Internet and social media platforms increasingly function as quasi-public forums. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, delivering the opinion of the court, wrote: While in the past there may have been difficulty in identifying the most important places (in a spatial sense) for the exchange of views, today the answer is clear. It is cyberspace  the vast democratic forums of the Internet in general, and social media in particular.

Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) filed a lawsuit last week claiming that Twitter, two parody Twitter accounts and a Republican political consultant violated the First Amendment and defamed him. He argued in court documents that Twitter, a private company, wields the power and qualities of a government entity and should be stripped of its constitutional protections.

The ability to use Twitter is a vital part of modern citizenship.  That is because Twitter is not merely a website: it is the modern-day town square, he said in the complaint, though he failed to address the wide-ranging (and possibly catastrophic) implications of viewing tech giants as extensions of the government.

[When it comes to social media manipulation, were our own worst enemy]

So what does that mean for the companies, for trust in the platforms and for the law?

Legislative changes require Congress to agree on bipartisan policy designed to prevent foreign influence in American elections. Although proposed legislation  such as the Honest Ads Act and Disclosure Act  would put transparency in place, with a divided government, advancing either seems unlikely.

Still, in a post-2016-election universe, tech companies face increased pressure to police their networks. Disparaged with unprecedented criticism from both Democrats and Republicans, some companies have assumed the responsibility of internal policing, said Jaffer, of the Knight First Amendment Institute.

They do just enough, or promise to do just enough, to take the wind out of the sails of regulatory proposals, yet come up shy of effecting the needed change, he said. The challenge, then, becomes how to enforce an internal monitor with no external regulator.

[Republicans accused Facebook, Google and Twitter of bias. Democrats called the hearing dumb.]

Politicians across party lines will complain of bias when a platform makes a decision averse to them, even if the decision is correct. In 2020, the role of these networks will emerge as a bipartisan issue, not just a Republican problem led by Trump.

We are flying blind, said Tom Glaisyer, managing director of the Democracy Funds Public Square Program, and are unable to understand the level of misinformation and the malevolent actors that exist.

Given their scale and role in public discourse, platforms, he suggested, need to do more than ameliorate the problem. They have a burden and responsibility.

Glaisyer added, They need to think deeply about how they operate in a manner that supports our democracy.

Read more:

Facebook says it will now block white-nationalist, white-separatist posts

Facebook and Twitter testified before Congress. Conservative conspiracy theorists lurked behind them.

Justice Department warns tech companies as Facebook and Twitter defend themselves in Congress

That sophisticated, specific Russian 2016 voter targeting effort doesnt seem to exist




In 1938, women carry the chains they intended to use if the cherry trees were removed. (New York Times/Redux)

The Jefferson Memorial and the cherry trees that surround it  those seasonal co-stars of postcards, watercolors and selfies by the million  seem to coexist with the harmony of a haiku. (White marble temple, plus pink blossoms to frame it, scream spring in Washington.)

But not always. When the two Washington icons were first introduced to each other, there were more curses than verses. The planned monument to Founding Father Thomas Jefferson sparked a massive flower-power resistance leading, eventually, to a standoff between womens garden clubs fighting for the trees and President Franklin Roosevelt determined to do right by T.J. By the end, garden club militants  impractical shoes, fur wraps and all  were ready to do battle with the bulldozers.

For in 1938, it was the proposed shrine to the third president that was the interloper on the banks of the Tidal Basin. The 3,000 Yoshino cherry trees given by the government of Japan in 1912 were already beloved in Washington. The trees had transformed a swampy stretch of government plant nurseries and fish hatcheries with a much-needed pink patina of pretty. The annual mob of visitors to the spring bloom was the original March Madness in a city that was increasing in both beauty and power as the 20th century progressed.

The plan to locate a memorial to Jefferson on the southeast corner of the tree-lined Tidal Basin was greeted with consternation from the start. In fine Washington tradition, each step of the design proposal met with howls of protest, from those who worried Jeffersons memorial would overshadow Lincolns, that it would violate the ever-controversial master plan for federal Washington, that it would create a traffic mess.

But mostly, residents worried that it would kill the trees. All of Tidal Basin Cherry Trees Doomed By Jefferson Memorial Commission Plans, warned a 1937 front-page headline in The Washington Post as plans were circulating.

[When Washington hated its cherry trees]

Officials promised throughout that they were doing everything possible to reduce the number of displaced trees, and that many more could be planted in other corners of the Mall and throughout Washington. As the debate grew more acrimonious, they often made these assertions anonymously.

From The Posts coverage: In this connection, one Government official who is involved in the tangled controversy minimized the campaign, widening daily, to save Washingtons famous cherry blossom festival. Plans are being made, he said, to develop Japanese cherry groves in other parts of the city which will be far more handsome than the one at the Tidal Basin.

"He requested that his name not be mentioned, as have all other officials who have volunteered information on the subject.

The tree lovers were having none of it. They didnt want more handsome groves elsewhere; they wanted to protect the original Yoshinos, which had come to define the setting and were considered too old to survive transplanting. Letters to the editor were filled with arbor ardor: Please do something! Stop the massacre! Stop this vandalism on the Potomac lest our posterity condemn us!



The Jefferson Memorial under construction around 1940. (Harris and Ewing/Library of Congress)

Sure enough, with each new proposed plan, the footprint was manipulated (cherry-mandered, you might say), and the number of imperiled trees came down.

One particular champion of the cherries was Eleanor Medill Cissy Patterson, the flamboyant owner of the Washington Times-Herald. A born newspaper women  her grandfather owned the Chicago Tribune, and her brother founded the New York Daily News  Patterson may have delighted more in shaking up official Washington than in saving the cherry trees. (Id rather raise hell than raise a garden, she once said in another context.)

But she ran a series of pro-Yoshino attacks on the Roosevelt administration. And as the day construction was scheduled to begin approached, she implored the citys tree partisans to take action. On Nov. 17, 1938, 50 women marched on the White House with a petition. The next day, the protesters went further.

Roosevelt was giving a press briefing when aide Marvin McIntyre interrupted with a dispatch from the construction site: Women were padlocking themselves to the cherry trees. Others were wresting shovels from the workers hands and digging dirt back into the holes. Some reportedly stood, arms folded, in front of the bulldozers.

The president was not pleased, and he immediately blamed Patterson. Roosevelt told the assembled reporters that the public has been subjected, by the owner of the newspapers, to the worst case of flimflamming Washington has seen in a long time, according to The Posts account of the hijacked briefing.

Roosevelt would not be budged. It would be the women and their chains who would be transplanted to some other part of Potomac Park, he pledged. The memorial, meanwhile, would go where Congress had authorized it to go.

And thus, the long-building Cherry Tree Rebellion bloomed and peaked on that autumn morning. By the time National Capital Parks Superintendent C. Marshall Finnan returned to the Tidal Basin, most of the estimated 150 protesters had left. The letter writing and objections continued, but so did the building of the memorial, with a ceremonial groundbreaking the next month.

A year later, when the corner stone was placed, Roosevelt waxed admiringly of the man who had written the Declaration of Independence and would soon, in statue form, stand watch over the Tidal Basin and its surrounding cherry grove.

And Roosevelt was there again in the spring of 1943, when John Russell Popes Pantheon-style building was finally dedicated. Although it may have been a bitter day for the defenders of the trees, they could take heart that the finished memorial consumed far fewer than some earlier plans called for.

Even better, when they took in the scene that next spring and decades of springs to come, it all  bark and marble, blossoms and columns  looked born to share the space. A neoclassical classic was born.

Read more Retropolis:

For International Womens Day, here are 7 of historys greatest women-led protests

Night of terror: The suffragists who were beaten and tortured for seeking the vote

She made history as a Navy pilot. An all-female squadron just flew over her funeral.

The first female Marine: In 1918, she couldnt vote but rushed to serve

The first woman to start a bank  a black woman  finally gets her due in the Confederacys capital


The citizen reporters at TruNews typically pump out racist and anti-Semitic conspiracy-laden articles about reptile people plotting a government takeover and secret death squads that perpetrate mass shootings, all while counting down to the second coming of Jesus Christ.

But on Thursday night, the right-wing fringe website scored one of its biggest stories yet: an interview with Donald Trump Jr.

Trump Jr.  the presidents eldest son, business heir and hype man  spoke to TruNews correspondent Kerry Kinsey at his fathers Grand Rapids, Mich., rally on Thursday.

Look who weve got, Don. Jr., Kinsey says at the outset. This is great.

In the five-minute interview that followed, Trump Jr. rehashed tried-and-true talking points about fake news, the deep state and Hillary Clinton, as Kinsey teed up milquetoast questions. As the conversation wrapped up, Kinsey made a final request: Would you tell your dad that TruNews loves your dad and we always give him a fair shake?

Ill do that, guys. Thank you so much. Have a great day, Trump Jr. responded.

Researchers at Right Wing Watch, a project from the nonprofit People for the American Way, have tracked TruNews for years and have described its founder, Rick Wiles, as a crazed conspiracy theorist obsessed with the end times.

Wiles regularly promotes conspiracy theories about President Obama, the federal government and secret powerful forces working to shape world events and lead to the end of days, his Right Wing Watch profile reads. He also frequently criticizes LGBT rights and immigration.

A spokeswoman for Trump Jr., who has his own history with conspiratorial thinking, said he hadnt planned to do the interview, nor had he and his representatives vetted the outlet.

This was not a pre-planned interview and Don had never heard of TruNews or had any awareness of their views until this very moment, the spokeswoman, Amanda Miller, said in the statement.

She said Trump Jr. was scheduled to talk with Fox News host Sean Hannity and, while he was waiting for that interview to begin, nearby reporters began asking him questions. He did interviews with several outlets, Miller said.

Unfortunately, he did not have an opportunity to run a full FBI background check on each and every one, she said.

The Trump campaign did not respond to questions about how TruNews gained access to the Michigan rally or whether the outlet was granted press credentials to cover it.

However, this was not the first time TruNews managed to get some face time with the Trump family. In September, at a news conference about Brett M. Kavanaughs Supreme Court nomination, the president himself took a question from a TruNews reporter, who asked Trump for a preview of the great deal that would end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Observers, in turn, wondered how the reporter even gained admission to the briefing.

So @PressSec allowed a rep from "TruNews" into Trump's presser. Figures.  Charles Cooper (@coopeydoop) September 26, 2018

The White House did not respond to questions about TruNews and its access to news conferences. The outlet also did not respond to a request for comment late Friday night.

The TruNews archive reads like a greatest hits collection of far-right conspiracy theories, a veritable potpourri of Nazi references and fear mongering about secret cabals.

In articles and broadcasts past, the site has claimed the Las Vegas shooting, which was the deadliest in modern U.S. history, was carried out by a secret death squad from a gay/lesbian Nazi regime and asserted that white Americans are being pushed out of their country by a brown invasion. Numerous articles on the site have declared Obama a demon from hell  or worse. After Hurricane Harvey devastated Houston in 2017, TruNews declared the storm punishment for the citys affinity for the sexual perversion movement.

Yet, TruNews is not the lone conspiracy platform that has found an audience in the White House.

Alex Jones, on his website Infowars, long claimed that the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., was a hoax. But that didnt stop Trump from appearing on Joness show during his presidential campaign.

Your reputation is amazing, Trump said then. I will not let you down.

Just over three years later, Kinsey, a representative from another fringe site, vied for the presidents attention. At the end of the interview with Trump Jr., Kinsey turned back to the camera and signed off. It sounded like even he couldnt believe what had just happened.

Kerry Kinsey here for TruNews in Grand Rapids, Michigan, with Donald Trump Jr., he said. Wow, how 'bout that.

Read more:

GOP legislator prays to Jesus for forgiveness before states first Muslim woman swears in

White planet only: Offices of Oklahoma Democrats, Chickasaw Nation vandalized with Nazi graffiti

Prankster sentenced to 20 years for fake 911 call that led police to kill an innocent man




Nevada Assemblywoman Lucy Flores, then the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor, introduces Vice President Joe Biden at a rally in Las Vegas on Nov. 1, 2014. (Ethan Miller/Getty Images)

A onetime Democratic nominee for Nevadas lieutenant governor accused former vice president Joe Biden on Friday of touching and kissing her without her consent during her campaign in 2014, an experience she says left her feeling mortified, embarrassed and confused.

In an essay published by The Cut, Lucy Flores wrote that when she learned the then-vice president had offered to appear at a rally in Nevada to support her campaign, she was grateful. But that feeling changed, she said, when Biden approached her from behind as she was getting ready to address the crowd.

She wrote that she felt the vice president place two hands on her shoulders before moving closer to her from behind.

Then, she says, Biden kissed her on the back of her head.

He proceeded to plant a big slow kiss on the back of my head. My brain couldnt process what was happening. I was embarrassed. I was shocked. I was confused. There is a Spanish saying, tragame tierra, it means, earth, swallow me whole. I couldnt move and I couldnt say anything. I wanted nothing more than to get Biden away from me. My name was called and I was never happier to get on stage in front of an audience. Lucy Flores for "The Cut"

As a young Latina, Flores said, she was used to feeling like an outsider in a political world dominated by white men  but she had never experienced something so blatantly inappropriate and unnerving before.

Flores said she told a few members of her staff what happened but was initially reluctant to talk to anyone else.

Is it enough of a transgression if a man touches and kisses you without consent but doesnt rise to the level of what most people consider sexual assault? she said. I did what most women do, and moved on with my life and my work.

Biden is expected to announce soon whether he will run for president in 2020. A spokesman for Biden on Friday said the former vice president was pleased to support Flores in 2014, and neither he nor his staff had an inkling that Ms. Flores had been at any time uncomfortable, nor do they recall what she describes.

But Vice President Biden believes that Ms. Flores has every right to share her own recollection and reflections, and that it is a change for better in our society that she has the opportunity to do so, the statement read. He respects Ms. Flores as a strong and independent voice in our politics and wishes her only the best.

During a March 16 speech in Dover, Del., Biden referred to himself as a tactile politician.

I always have been, and that gets me in trouble as well, because I think I can feel and taste what is going on, he told the crowd.

Over the years, Biden has been captured in numerous images and videos embracing, kissing and standing close to women. These instances were brushed off by some who saw his actions as lighthearted, and Flores lamented that Biden was able to keep his title of Americas Favorite Uncle despite myriad publications documenting his actions.

In this case, it shows a lack of empathy for the women and young girls whose space he is invading, and ignores the power imbalance that exists between Biden and the women he chooses to get cozy with, she wrote.

Floress account comes as Biden faces scrutiny over the way he handled the accusations Anita Hill made against Clarence Thomas during his confirmation hearing as a Supreme Court justice.

On Tuesday, at an event honoring those who have worked to combat sexual assault on college campuses, Biden apologized again for his handling of the matter in 1991, when Hill faced accusatory questioning from a panel of white men.

To this day, I regret I couldnt come up with a way to get her the kind of hearing she deserved, given the courage she showed by reaching out to us, Biden said in New York at the Biden Courage Awards. Some pointed out that his use of the word couldnt suggested he didnt have the power to change the course of the hearing.

Felicia Sonmez contributed to this report.

Read more:

Joe Biden on Anita Hill: To this day, I regret I couldnt come up with a way to get her the kind of hearing she deserved

Prankster sentenced to 20 years for fake 911 call that led police to kill an innocent man




A Chick-fil-A restaurant in Las Vegas. (iStock/iStock)

The Texas attorney general has launched an investigation to determine whether the San Antonio City Council violated religious-liberty laws by barring Chick-fil-A from opening a restaurant in the citys airport.

The council voted late last week to exclude Chick-fil-A from a concession agreement with San Antonio International Airport, citing, in part, the religious views associated with the fast-food restaurant chain  specifically, the anti-same-sex marriage values, according to the Texas Tribune.

The states attorney general, Ken Paxton, said the treatment of the chain was discriminatory and wrote in a letter to San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg and the city council that his office would investigate whether such a ban violates any state laws. He said he also asked the U.S. Department of Transportation to look at the federal regulations.

The Constitutions protection of religious liberty is somehow even better than Chick-fil-As chicken, Paxton (R) wrote. Unfortunately, I have serious concerns that both are under assault at the San Antonio airport.

The mayor said the city attorney is reviewing the letter, and I am withholding comment until we have had adequate time to analyze it.

[Getting a Chick-fil-A franchise is harder than getting into Harvard]

The Texas Tribune reported that city council member Roberto Trevio proposed a plan to approve the concession agreement, permitting eight new vendors to set up in the airports Terminal A but swap out Chick-fil-A for another vendor. Trevio told the council that he could not get behind a company with a legacy of anti-LGBTQ behavior, according to the newspaper.

The work our city has done to become a champion of equality and inclusion should not be undone so easily, he said, according to the San Antonio Express-News.

The Express-News noted that although the mayor came to the same conclusion, he based his decision on business, arguing that the city would lose revenue on Sundays when the restaurant closes for religious reasons.

The City of San Antonios decision to exclude Chick-fil-A based on the religious beliefs associated with the company and its owners is the opposite of tolerance. Its discriminatory, and not only out of step with Texas values, but inconsistent with the Constitution and Texas law. pic.twitter.com/iOk7G9Eltv  Ken Paxton (@KenPaxtonTX) March 28, 2019

The Chick-fil-A Foundation has donated to organizations that are seen by some as anti-LGBTQ or oppose rights such as same-sex marriage.

However, the company has maintained that To suggest that our efforts in supporting these organizations was focused on suppressing a group of people is misleading and inaccurate.

Our intention is to have a positive influence on our communities by donating to programs that benefit youth and education and are welcoming to all, Rodney Bullard, executive director of the Chick-fil-A Foundation and vice president of corporate social responsibility, said in a statement last week. We are proud of the impact weve been able to make so far and we have a lot yet to do.

Paxton, the state attorney general, said in a statement that the citys decision to exclude a respected vendor based on the religious beliefs associated with that company and its owners is the opposite of tolerance.

The citys discriminatory decision is not only out of step with Texas values, but inconsistent with the Constitution and Texas law, Paxton added.

San Antonio City Councils decision, a 6-4 vote, has made national headlines and prompted criticism from conservative lawmakers.

Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) wrote on Twitter that the ban has the stench of religious discrimination against Chick-fil-A.

Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) said that the citizens of beautiful San Antonio deserve more delicious sandwiches, and fewer rabid attacks against companies because of their charitable giving to the community.

Republican Congressman Chip Roy, who represents the states 21st Congressional District, which includes parts of San Antonio, wrote an open letter to the city council this week, scolding members for the vote.

Targeting individuals, organizations or corporations for carrying out their deeply held religious beliefs in accord with our laws and consistent with many Americans similarly held religious beliefs is hardly making San Antonio a champion of equality and inclusion,  Roy wrote. I hope this matter can be resolved, as it would be unfortunate if the councils decision negatively impacted our ability to effectively advocate for San Antonio in Congress due to such rampant discriminatory action against a well-regarded business with such a significant presence in our communities in Central Texas and across the nation.

However, one council member, Greg Brockhouse, has apologized to Chick-fil-A, emphasizing in a letter to the company that San Antonio City Councils recent decision does not reflect the overwhelming belief in our city that you are a valued business and community partner.

I regret the words used to describe your organization and I will not repeat them in this letter, Brockhouse, who is running for mayor, wrote to the companys chairman and chief executive. My only goal is to ensure the employees of Chick-fil-A know how much we care about their presence in San Antonio.

Chick-fil-A did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Washington Post.

Read more:

An angry Chick-fil-A customer sucker-punched an employee. It did not end well.

Perspective: I joined the GOP because it stood for religious freedom. It still does.

Supreme Court rules in favor of baker who would not make wedding cake for gay couple


The arc of justice for Antwon Rose II has traveled along a familiar modern path: Police kill an unarmed black male, video emerges and protests erupt, along with calls for the conviction of officers involved.

And then, often, the opposite happens. Most fatal shootings by police result in no charges, and convictions are even less common.

But shootings of unarmed black males captured with ubiquitous smartphone or police body cameras have crystallized anger in communities rocked by killings, and several similar incidents have created expectations among some that video and social outrage should be enough to put officers in prison.

Those hopes dim when officers lean on the inherent danger of their work and invoke laws that allow broad authority for violence, leaving calls for justice and video outpaced by a legal system that critics say still favors the police.

Rose, 17, was shot three times after fleeing a car involved in a June shooting in East Pittsburgh. The officer, Michael Rosfeld, was charged with criminal homicide days later after he told conflicting stories about seeing Rose with a weapon, even though Rose was unarmed.

Searing bystander video and public outcry led to charges and the Rose familys guarded optimism that Rosfeld would be convicted.

[Antwon Rose death highlights what can happen when relationship between residents, officers deteriorates]

The Allegheny County District Attorneys Office, which prosecuted the case, came out forcefully in the days after the killing to suggest the high bar for a murder conviction could be met. I find that Rosfelds actions were intentional, District Attorney Stephen A. Zappala said in June. He was not acting to prevent death or serious bodily injury.

But Rosfeld was acquitted of charges last week, prompting more protests.

Jurors see with their own eyes a fleeing kid, who is unarmed, and they know it is wrong. But the law is prohibitive. You can only do so much, S. Lee Merritt, the attorney for Roses estate, told The Washington Post.

State attorneys work with law enforcement and have the unusual task of prosecuting a police officer responsible, he added. It becomes a very awkward dance.

The outcome was nearly symmetrical with that in the cases of Stephon Clark, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and others whose killings were captured on video after they were confronted by police while unarmed.

No charges were filed against two officers who killed Clark in March 2018 after mistaking his white iPhone for a gun in a killing that upended Sacramento. An officer shouted gun! and, with his partner, fired 20 rounds at Clark in his grandmothers backyard after they suspected he was breaking into nearby cars.

He was struck eight times, his familys autopsy concluded.

The officers involved in killing Garner and Rice also did not face charges.

In Rosfelds case, Pennsylvania law allows officers to use force to prevent serious injury to themselves or others, or if they believe it will prevent a suspects escape from arrest in the event they are likely to commit violence.

[Look for justice: A shooting in South Carolina and the power of video]

The prosecutions arguments against Rosfeld rested on his decision to shoot and kill Rose, but prosecutors did not provide an expert witness focused on police use of force for the trial, said Mike Manko, a spokesman for the district attorneys office.

Prosecutors were otherwise confident that video evidence, common sense and other facts would overcome Rosfelds justification for using force, which can be confusing for a jury to wade through, Manko said.

Merritt, who was not involved in the criminal case, said prosecutors appeared to pull punches. Prosecutors did not fully press Rosfeld on the inconsistencies of his statements to investigators, he said.

Charging documents show Rosfeld told investigators he thought Rose pointed a gun at him but later said he did not see a gun and again altered his statement. Prosecutors pointed out Rosfelds inconsistencies during cross examination, Manko said.

In less than four hours, jurors found Rosfeld not guilty of first-degree murder, third-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter. The verdict was too fast, said Carolyn Morrison, Roses aunt, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported. It was all too fast."

Rosfelds attorney, Patrick Thomassey, defended the verdict. This was an absolutely justified shooting, he told The Post.

If Rosfeld didnt shoot Rose and he went on to commit a crime, Thomassey said, then people would be clamoring and asking why he didnt shoot.

Activists and East Pittsburgh community members were expecting a rare win, Merritt said.

Merritt is pursuing a path that other families and attorneys have used after officers did not receive prison time. He filed a federal civil suit against East Pittsburgh and Rosfeld, challenging the constitutionality of the states use of force laws, he said.

Videos of police killings have been key to some incidents. They rally communities and pressure law enforcement to release details that line up with the evidence. If you have video, it does establish a core fact to some degree, David A. Harris, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh, told The Post in 2015.

They have sometimes helped secure convictions against police who killed black males on video.

Former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke was sentenced to six years in prison in January for the 2014 killing of Laquan McDonald, a 17-year-old suspect with a knife. Michael Slager, a former North Charleston, S.C., officer who killed Walter Scott in 2015, was sentenced to 20 years in prison in a federal case.

[What the police officer who shot Philando Castile said about the shooting]

And yet, experts have long cautioned that video footage from shootings, while grisly, may not be decisive because it may be incomplete or cannot account for what an officer says they felt in the moment. Police shootings can be deemed legally justified based on whether jurors believe an officer was afraid for their life or the lives of others.

In that sense, video evidence competes with what an officer said they perceived.

For instance, an officer shot and killed Philando Castile during a traffic stop after Castile reached for his ID and told the officer he had a firearm in the car. The 2016 incident in Minnesota was captured in a live Facebook broadcast by Castiles girlfriend, Diamond Reynolds.

[Diamond Reynolds tries to move past 10 tragic minutes of video]

Jeronimo Yanez, who said he feared for his life, was found not guilty of manslaughter and two counts of endangering Reynolds and her 4-year-old daughter. He was dismissed from the police force.

Some point to the limited role video seem to have in securing convictions.

Concern over police killings and calls for change in black communities predate smartphones, but it was easier for others to avoid the issue then, said Phillip Atiba Goff, president of Center for Policing Equity, a nonprofit that promotes police transparency and accountability.

What cameras did was make the moment inescapable, Goff said. People saw the black community. Then we watched them turn away.

Mark Berman contributed to this report.

Read more:

Baton Rouge police officers wont be charged in fatal shooting of Alton Sterling

Darren Wilson explains why he killed Michael Brown

After Stephon Clarks death, new videos show police muted body cameras at least 16 times

Thousands dead, few prosecuted: Most police cleared or acquitted in killings

Cleveland police officer who fatally shot 12-year-old Tamir Rice is fired  but not for the killing




People crowd around the abandoned bullet-riddled Ford automobile in which Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow were killed May 23, 1934. (AP)

On May 23, 1934, the day the law finally caught up with Bonnie and Clyde, a tow truck hauling the couples shot-up Ford  their bloody bodies still inside  pulled into the itty-bitty town of Arcadia, La.

It was a circus.

Word had spread that the outlaws were ambushed on a nearby country road. Thousands of people from nearby towns showed up hoping to see, and maybe even touch, the bodies of the murderous lovers whose exploits had captivated the nation.

One girl I went to school with wound up with one of Bonnies shoes, a town resident recalled decades later. People were taking pieces off the car for souvenirs.

The surreal scene is depicted in the new Netflix film The Highwaymen, staring Kevin Costner and Woody Harrelson as the Texas Rangers who hunted down Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow after they killed 13 people on a multistate crime spree.

[On this day in history, outlaw Jesse James took a bullet to the brain]

The movie is a classic chase story, but its also a study in the countrys long obsession with fame in any form  whether lurid, violent or outrageous. Bonnie and Clyde had it all.

If they were around today, said John Lee Hancock, the films director, they would have more Instagram followers than the Kardashians.

How Bonnie and Clyde became stars is a story that cultural historians, biographers and, of course, filmmakers have been chewing on for decades. Its about journalism, the economy and especially the rise of images  both still and moving.



An undated photo of Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow. (AP)

Bonnie and Clydes exploits took place during the Great Depression, when people were beleaguered.

Newspapers, themselves trying to survive, figured out that readers were tired of stories about the miserable economy. According to Jeff Guinn, the author of Go Down Together: The True, Untold Story of Bonnie and Clyde, readers wanted diversion  sports heroes, movie stars, gangsters.

Babe Ruth, Bette Davis, John Dillinger.

But nothing was as engaging as Bonnie and Clyde, said screenwriter John Fusco, who spent more than 15 years researching and developing The Highwaymen. They were glamorized because of the Bonnie element  lovers on the run outside of society just really attracted the public.

Bonnie and Clyde, and their Barrow Gang, seemed to know it, too.

After a shootout in Joplin, Mo., police discovered that the murdering bandits conveniently left behind a camera at the scene. This was Bonnies path into Americas living rooms.

In one snapshot she held a grinning Clyde Barrow at mock gunpoint, Guinn wrote. In another, she propped one foot on the fender of the V-8 sedan  a very unladylike posture  and then compounded the shock value by waving a handgun that she also brandished or wore in several other pictures.

There was even a photo of Bonnie with a cigar hanging from her mouth. The photos were given to a local newspaper and used for a wanted poster. Once they hit the wire services  the pre-Internet in many ways  newspapers across the country printed them, as did true-crime magazines.

They wanted to cram as many Barrow Gang stories into their publications as possible before the cops inevitably caught the kids and ruined a good story line, Guinn wrote.

The legend of Bonnie and Clyde grew and grew. They became so large in the countrys imagination  Hollywood-like actors directing their own real-life drama  that the fans who showed up in Arcadia to literally get a piece of them were stunned by what they saw and later learned about them in newspapers.



Bonnie Parker, left, and Clyde Barrow are shown at the morgue in Arcadia, La., on May 23, 1934. The bank robbers were ambushed by law enforcement officials who riddled their car with 167 bullets as they drove along a country road. (AP)

Bonnie, for one thing, wasnt tall and glamorous like a Hollywood starlet. As for Clyde, Guinn wrote, One onlooker, disappointed by Clydes scrawny frame, announced, He was nothing but a little bitty fart! 

They had big guns, but they were anything but tough. Both limped badly. Bonnies leg had been injured in a car wreck. Clyde, while in prison for earlier crimes, chopped off two of his toes to avoid hard labor, unaware that he would be paroled a few days later. Whoops.

Still, America wasnt done with them.

More than 10,000 people showed up in Dallas for each of their funerals. And then a seemingly unbelievable chain of events transpired.

The stolen V8 Ford that Bonnie and Clyde were killed in  dubbed the Death Car in the media  was returned to the Kansas woman who owned it. She drove it home to Topeka, bullet holes and all, then rented it to a showman known as the Crime Doctor, who took the car on a tour around the country.

At an event in Texas, the two Texas Rangers who hunted down the killers  Frank Hamer and Maney Gault  showed up and hopped onstage, according to Guinns book and other accounts. Hamer slapped the Crime Doctor in the face.

Like the legend of Bonnie and Clyde, the car has survived as a grotesque symbol of fame.

Today, anyone can go see it. The car is displayed in the lobby of Whiskey Petes Hotel and Casino in Primm, Nevada. Or just search Instagram for Death Car. There are plenty of photos.

Selfies, too.

Read more history on Retropolis:

On this day in history, outlaw Jesse James took a bullet to the brain

A freed slave became a spy. Then she took down the Confederate White House.

Virginia Tech was not the worst school massacre in U.S. history. This was.

The NRA once believed in gun control and had a leader who pushed for it

The loaded legacy of the UT Tower shooting




Fans wait to enter Nationals Park on Opening Day. (Jonathan Newton/The Washington Post)

Bryce Harper played baseball on Thursday. For the Phillies. In Philadelphia.

Nationals fans, meanwhile, went to Opening Day in Washington, wearing red, white and sometimes blue. For some fans, this meant putting on clothes that had once honored Harper. Would they attempt to fix their jerseys? Or destroy their jerseys? Or just leave their jerseys the way they were? Lets take a look.

The rip

Has the added benefit of providing a cooling breeze.

tfw you want to wear the Bryce Harper jersey you spent a lot of money on, but you know, hes not on the team anymore pic.twitter.com/TZ6bZd0q8j  Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) March 28, 2019

Dude ripped Harper's name off his jersey  pic.twitter.com/rh3uD118gE  Dawn Dee (@Dawniemyte) March 28, 2019

Spotted a brand new Harper Jersey pic.twitter.com/b7Jgy41wx2  Jeff Feingold (@jefffeingold) March 28, 2019

The arts and crafts solution

Duct tape, markers, creative slogans, or even another name written out on tape? Sure, whatever.

It was kind of a last-minute decision," said Eric Pollard, 32, who wrote Anthony Rendons name on blue tape and covered up Harpers name on the back of his jersey. "I have a jersey with no name and no number, and I couldve gone with that, but this is more fun.

[Why Nationals fans chanted Lock him up! at Anthony Rendon on Opening Day]

Pollard, who bought the Harper jersey in 2013, is still debating whether to rotate the names taped on his back, or just get a new jersey. This could be a Trea Turner jersey next week, he joked.

As for Harper, well, Pollard once had dreams.

I wanted him to be a career player here, to stick around for 20 years, be another one of those guys like Ryan Zimmerman, and a perennial all-star," he said. "But baseball is a business and he got the best money he could get.

Pollard and his wife plan to attend Harpers return to Washington next week, and will likely boo the former star, but not out of hate.

He got plenty of comments for his handiwork on Thursday. And on his way down the ramp after the final out, a Nats fan tapped him on the shoulder and said, Your jersey is the best part about this game.



Eric Pollard in his custom Bryce Harper jersey.

These are the only two Bryce Harper jerseys Ive seen so far at Nats Park. pic.twitter.com/3jQH0mquqS  Eddie Matz (@ESPNeddiematz) March 28, 2019

You missed this guy pic.twitter.com/CxolWGHrfr  susan vavrick (@edit_susan) March 29, 2019

I took this photo pic.twitter.com/8BilJEp3Y0  Marlene Koenig  (@royalmusing) March 29, 2019

The advanced arts and crafts solution

Do schools still teach arts and crafts? Maybe they should start.

We're all for DIY projects, but uhhh.... pic.twitter.com/i7ZgMElQoV  Cut4 (@Cut4) March 28, 2019

The political message

I mean, arent we all sellouts, in the end?

The profane

Hide the kids.

1 of 24 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad  Scenes from Nationals Park on Opening Day View Photos The Washington Nationals opened their season against the New York Mets Caption The Washington Nationals opened their season against the New York Mets Ricky Carioti/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

Read more MLB coverage:

Nationals cant deliver what they promised in 2-0 Opening Day loss to Mets

Most experts predict the Nationals will return to the postseason in 2019

With a bow, a roar and a ground out, the Bryce Harper Era in Philadelphia is underway




Hokies guard Justin Robinson, right, walks off the court in anguish after Virginia Tech lost to Duke. (Toni L. Sandys/The Washington Post)

Follow coverage of Gonzaga-Texas Techs Elite Eight matchup here.

 No. 2 seed Kentucky scored the final seven points to defeat No. 3 seed Houston, 62-58. Wildcats center P.J. Washington returned from injury and scored 16 points, but did not start. Kentucky will play No. 5 seed Auburn in the Midwest Region final at 2:20 p.m. Eastern on Sunday.

 And how about those Tigers? They became the first team of this tournament to knock out a No. 1 seed with a masterful 97-80 takedown of flu-ridden North Carolina. But the Tigers will likely be without star forward Chuma Okeke, who suffered a knee injury that Coach Bruce Pearl said, could be serious.

 No. 1 seed Duke survived against No. 4 seed Virginia Tech, 75-73, when Ahmed Hill missed on a beautiful lob play just before the buzzer. Zion Williamson continued his dominant streak since returning from injury, but the Blue Devils were without point guard Cam Reddish, who sat out with a knee injury.

[Hokies suffer cruel loss to Blue Devils to end their season in Sweet 16]

 Michigan States freshmen stepped up and the Spartans bashed LSU, 80-63, in the East Region. Aaron Henry, the player Coach Tom Izzo hollered at earlier in the tournament, had 20 points, eight rebounds and six assists. The second-seeded Spartans will play Duke for the regional title on Sunday at 5:05 p.m. Eastern.

 The rest of the Elite Eight was decided Thursday night. (Catch up here.) Those teams will play for the first two spots in the Final Four on Saturday: Texas Tech vs. Gonzaga at 6:09 p.m. and Purdue vs. Virginia scheduled for 8:49.

Schedule and results

Game times and TV information. All times Eastern.

Saturdays games

Anaheim (West Region)

No. 1 Gonzaga vs. No. 3 Texas Tech, 6:09 p.m., TBS

Louisville (South Region)

No. 1 Virginia vs. No. 3 Purdue, 8:49 p.m., TBS

Sundays games

Kansas City (Midwest Region)

No. 2 Kentucky vs. No. 5 Auburn, 2:20 p.m., CBS

Washington (East Region)

No. 1 Duke vs. No. 2 Michigan State, 5:05 p.m., CBS

Fridays results

Washington, D.C. (East Region)

No. 2 Michigan State 80, No. 3 LSU 63

No. 1 Duke 75, No. 4 Virginia Tech 73

Kansas City, Mo. (Midwest Region)

No. 5 Auburn 97, No. 1 North Carolina 80

No. 2 Kentucky 62, No. 3 Houston 58

Thursdays results

Anaheim, Calif. (West Region)

No. 1 Gonzaga 72, No. 4 Florida State 58

No. 3 Texas Tech 63, No. 2 Michigan 44

Louisville (South Region)

No. 3 Purdue 99, No. 2 Tennessee 94 (OT)

No. 1 Virginia 53, No. 12 Oregon 49

[2019 NCAA tournament interactive bracket]

Fridays in-game highlights

Another blue blood in Elite Eight as Kentucky holds on

Houston made it interesting late, but another blue blood is headed to the Elite Eight. Kentucky withstood a final Cougar push, but held on for a 62-58 win to advance to face Auburn in the Midwest regional final.

Star center P.J. Washington did not start with a left foot injury, but scored 16 points and had a crucial block that set up Tyler Herros go-ahead three-pointer with 25 seconds left. Kentuckys stellar defense down the stretch sealed the win. Houstons Armoni Brooks led all scorers with 20 points.

Duke survives last-second attempt by Hokies

Duke survived a hectic and dramatic finish to advance past Virginia Tech, 75-73, and earn a spot in the East regional final against Michigan State.

Hokie forward Ty Outlaw tried a desperation three-pointer with five seconds to go, but it bricked off the backboard, hit a Duke player and bounced out of bounds with 1.1 seconds left. Virginia Tech ran its inbounds play to perfection  Ahmed Hill curled around a screen in the lane and had an open alley-oop layup that would have sent the game to overtime  but the attempt bounced off the rim.

The Blue Devils played without starting point guard Cam Reddish, who sustained a knee injury earlier in the day, but was expected to see at least a few minutes of action against the Hokies. Instead, he was held out, and it showed. Virginia Techs ball pressure bothered Tre Jones and R.J. Barrett who shouldered the ballhandling responsibilities instead, and still posted impressive stat lines. Barrett had 18 points and 11 rebounds. Jones had 22 points and 6 assists.

But the Devils turned to  whom else?  Zion Williamson down the stretch. His powerful finishes in the lane and a crucial block in transition preserved the Duke lead. He finished with a game-high 23 points, six rebounds and three blocks.

Wildcats holding on in ugly game

Kentucky and Houston remain offensively challenged, and the Wildcats still cant quite pull away. Ahead, 47-42, Kentucky is shooting 47.5 percent from the floor, but is still dominating Houston on the glass, 30-16. Tyler Herro leads all scorers with 14 points with just over seven minutes to play.

Blue Devils surge ahead

Duke has made a mini-run to put some distance between itself and Virginia Tech. Tre Jones knocked down a corner three-pointer to give the Blue Devils a five-point lead, then Zion Williamson threw down a dunk to make it a seven-point game with 2:30 to play. Duke leads, 73-69 with under two minutes left.

Zion

Zion.

Reddish done for Duke

After sitting out the first half, Duke point guard Cam Reddish wont play the second half either, according to CBSs Tracy Wolfson. Reddish didnt start the game because of a recent knee injury, but was expected to be able to see some action. Sophomore Alex OConnell started in his place, and has scored four points on 2 of 5 shooting, including missing three three-point attempts. With Reddish out, R.J. Barrett and Tre Jones have taken charge of the ballhandling duties.

Cats up at the break

Kentucky edged away from Houston late in the first half to take a 37-26 lead at the break. Finally, some three-pointers started to fall for the Wildcats, which complemented their superior inside game. Kentucky headed to the locker room beating the Cougars on the glass, 18-7. Kentuckys Tyler Herro and Houstons Galen Robinson Jr., each have eight points to lead all scorers.

Wildcats have the first half edge

Kentucky has squeaked ahead of Houston, 23-18, with under six minutes to play in the first half. The Midwest regional semifinals plodding pace hasnt yielded much offense between two usually high-flying teams. Kentuckys P.J. Washington leads all scorers with six points. Neither team is shooting from distance well. Both are 1 of 5 from three-point range.

Blue Devils down at the half

Could Duke be the second No. 1 seed to fall? Through the first half of the East regional semifinal, Virginia Tech has a 38-34 lead on the Blue Devils. The Hokies have forced Duke into seven turnovers and Blue Devils star guard R.J. Barrett is in foul trouble with three points and seven assists.

Ahmed Hill and Wabissa Bede are leading Virginia Tech with 13 and 10 points, respectively.

The Hokies won the teams only previous meeting, a 77-72 grind in Blacksburg, Va., when the Blue Devils were without Williamson. The winner of Fridays game will face Michigan State in the East regional final.

Blue Devils, Hokies neck-and-neck

Duke and Virginia Tech are neck-and-neck midway through the first half. The Hokies have edged ahead to 32-30 lead, but Duke is outshooting Virginia Tech, 52.6 percent to 50 percent. Zion Williamson already has nine points and three rebounds, including on thunderous put-back dunk, for the Blue Devils, but Ahmed Hill and Wabissa Bede each have eight points for the Hokies.

Okekes injury could be serious

Auburn Coach Bruce Pearl cautioned reporters in a postgame news conference that the injury to star forward Chuma Okeke could be severe.

Its a knee injury. We dont know the extent, but we think it could be serious, he said.

Its a bittersweet accomplishment because of Chuma getting hurt late in the game, Pearl added regarding the Tigers victory over North Carolina. Nobody works harder, nobody gives us more courage when it gets tough and you gotta go to a matchup, we got 5 [Okekes number] and you dont. Thats how we felt. In a game full of guys who have a chance to play at the next level, I thought he was the best of them, and thats happened a lot this year. Were disappointed that he may be lost, but were very, very grateful to be moving on.

The entire Auburn team was visibly shaken immediately after Okekes injury, a scary fall as his left knee buckled with 8 minutes to play. Players linked arms in prayer in front of their bench and medical professionals tended to Okeke. Pearl in postgame comments on the TBS broadcast shed tears while thinking about the injury.

Emotional moment as Bruce Pearl breaks down discussing Chuma Okeke's injury.pic.twitter.com/VWpg2drqFR  Sporting News (@sportingnews) March 30, 2019

Chuma Okeke gets the honor of officially stamping the bracket #MarchMadness | @AuburnMBB pic.twitter.com/CLq3WeMj2x  NCAA March Madness (@marchmadness) March 30, 2019

Auburn moving on after stunning UNC

The NCAA tournaments first No. 1 seed has fallen. Behind clutch three-point shooting and timely defense, No. 5 seed Auburn rolled over North Carolina, 97-80, in the Midwest regional semifinal.

The Tigers took an 11-point lead early in the second half after a 19-4 run that spanned both periods, and only pushed the pedal down harder as time wore on. Even as the Tar Heels ripped the ball down court with their trademark racecar speed, the Tigers were equal to the task.

Point guard Jared Harper, playing through foul trouble, had 11 assists and kept Auburns offense on schedule. JVon McCormick had 10 crucial points off the bench. Danjel Purifoy had 14 points, a dozen of them of four second-half three-pointers.

Chuma Okeke led the Southeastern Conference tournament champions with 20 points and 11 rebounds, but left the game with eight minutes to play after a scary knee injury.

Coby White and Cameron Johnson each had 15 points to pace the Tar Heels.

The last two seasons, North Carolina has gone out to SEC teams by a combined 38 points (21 to A&M, 17 to Auburn) #MarchMadness  Chuck Culpepper (@ChuckCulpepper1) March 30, 2019

Auburn will face the winner of Houston and Kentucky in the Midwest regional final. Its the Tigers first trip to the Elite Eight since 1986 and second ever.

Spartans moving on

Michigan State surged past LSU, 80-63, Friday night to advance to the Elite 8. The Spartans launched an 11-0 run that countered an LSU surge to start the second half, and the Tigers were unable to catch up.

Freshman forward Aaron Henry led Michigan State with 20 points, eight rebounds and six assists. Point guard Cassius Winston added 17 points and eight assists.

The Spartans will face the winner of Duke and Virginia Tech for the East regional championship and a berth in the Final Four.

Injury scare for Auburn

Auburns Chuma Okeke fell down with a frightening injury with eight minutes to play against North Carolina. With the Tigers leading, 76-62, Okeke drove the basket and went to plant on his left foot to attempt a layup. But Okekes leg buckled and his left knee turned inward in an unnatural fashion and Okeke immediately collapsed to the floor in pain. Athletic trainers helped him off the floor to a standing ovation at Kansas Citys Sprint Center. At the time of the injury, he was leading the Tigers with a game-high 20 points and 10 rebounds.

Tigers not letting up

Auburn has a 17-point lead on North Carolina with under nine minutes to play and is turning up the heat on defense against the Tar Heels. Watch the Tigers take two sure buckets away with acrobatic blocks.

Auburn hanging with North Carolina

If the swamping of Kansas wasnt enough to prove it, Auburn can score against pretty much anyone, and the Tigers took a 41-39 lead to the half against North Carolina. Auburn is keeping up with the Tar Heels scorching pace and its guard play, behind Malik Dunbar and JVon McCormick off the bench, has answered North Carolinas Coby White and Kenny Williams.

Auburns Chuma Okeke leads all scorers with 12 points. White leads the Tar Heels with nine.

Henry taking care of business for Michigan State

Michigan State is in control after the first half against LSU. If not for a late three-pointer from Tremont Waters, things would look really ugly for the Tigers. As it stands, they trail 40-28 after getting rolled on the glass and stifled defensively. At one point, LSU went more than six minutes without a field goal while the Spartans went on a 12-1 run.

Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo was especially happy with freshman forward Aaron Henry, he told CBS reporter Tracy Wolfson during a halftime interview. Izzos relationship with the talented underclassman grabbed headlines during the tournaments first weekend after the coach was seen hollering at Henry during a timeout in what some considered an unsporting manner.

But Friday night, Izzo had nothing but praise for Henry, who has a game-high 13 points and 7 rebounds.

Right now, hes playing as good as anybody, Izzo said.

Man, Aaron Henry (@MSU_Basketball) has been the most impressive player in the first half. Between hitting shots, creating off the dribble and rebounding the ball, hes stood out. Sound play here to use ball fake and then use gather dribble to find floater in the paint. pic.twitter.com/vOcodWOiDk  Luka (@preptopros) March 30, 2019

Fast-paced action in Midwest

Auburn and North Carolina are playing at a vicious pace, tied at 26 with seven minutes to play in the first half. Chuma Okeke has 10 points on 4 of 5 shooting for the Tigers. Malik Dunbar has eight points. Coby White has been pushing the ball up the floor for the Tar Heels, but center Luke May has three assists already to go with five points. Seven Tar Heels are on the score sheet, with White leading the way with six points.

Spartans in control

Michigan States experience is having an early shining moment against LSU. The Spartans are up 15 as the first half begins to wind down and are mopping up the Tigers on the glass while locking down on defense. Michigan State has 15 rebounds to LSUs 5, and is outshooting LSU from three-point range, 50 percent to 16.7 percent. The Tigers are in foul trouble, too. Big man Naz Reid already has two fouls, and so does Darius Days off the bench.


The Boston Celtics banned a fan who directed verbal abuse toward the Warriors DeMarcus Cousins for the rest of this season and all of next season, the team confirmed. The ban was first reported by Yahoos Chris B. Haynes.

Yahoo Sources: A fan in Boston banned two years for muttering n***** at DeMarcus Cousins during Golden States only visit to TD Garden. More details in video link provided. https://t.co/xWpgFu0amH pic.twitter.com/JbtFOt3scZ  Chris Haynes (@ChrisBHaynes) March 29, 2019

The incident occurred Jan. 26, when Golden State visited Boston at TD Garden. Haynes said Cousins alerted security, who ejected the fan from the stadium.

The Warriors confirmed that they had been told about the fans punishment, Boston.coms Nicole Yang reported.

The Celtics issued a statement Friday afternoon, noting that the fan was a minor and confirming that the suspension is for two years and is also subject to lifetime probation pursuant to our policy. The team added that it initiated an exhaustive investigation of the incident that included reviewing video from multiple angles and identifying and interviewing numerous fans, security personnel, and police in the immediate vicinity." While it concluded that the fan had been verbally abusive toward the Golden State bench, none of the interviewed parties were able to verify the use of racially offensive language, and video evidence proved inconclusive.

Statement from the Boston Celtics about the fan incident involving DeMarcus Cousins back in January: pic.twitter.com/BrOcoqesy1  Tim Bontemps (@TimBontemps) March 29, 2019

The sanction is light compared with punishments handed out recently by the Utah Jazz, which banned two fans from its stadium permanently over incidents involving Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder. One fan called Westbrook boy during the first round of the 2018 playoffs. Another told him to get down on [your] knees like you used to, according to Thunder teammate Patrick Patterson.

This should never happen. We are not a racist community, owner Gail Miller told the crowd at a Jazz home game after the latter fan had been banned. We believe in treating people with courtesy and respect as human beings. From time to time, individual fans exhibit poor behavior and forget their manners. Some disrespect players on other teams. When that happens, I want to jump up and shout, Stop! We have a code of conduct in this arena. It will be strictly enforced.

Because of such incidents, NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued a memo reminding teams to clearly state and strictly enforce their code of conduct policies governing fan misbehavior.

The punishment of the Celtics fan also was light compared with sanctions doled out in the past by the Boston Red Sox, who banned a fan for life in 2017 after he used a racial slur toward another spectator during a game at Fenway Park.

Read more from Post Sports:

The Bucks may have unlocked the secret to stopping James Harden

The Bryce Harper Era in Philadelphia is underway. Now he must live up to expectations.

In this years womens Sweet 16, no ones untouchable. Not even U-Conn.

Wherever Buzz Williams might be going, hes going to win

What separates this Virginia team from its NCAA busts? NBA talent.


President Trump plans to slash hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to three Central American countries in retaliation for what he called their lack of help in reducing the flow of migrants to the U.S. border.

The move confirmed Saturday against El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras deepens the White House confrontations with Latin America over a surge in irregular migrations, including asylum seekers and others.

Trump has already warned that he could close the southern border  or at least large stretches of it  unless Mexico takes steps to halt migrants heading north.

The State Department said Saturday that it would be ending . . . foreign assistance programs for the Northern Triangle, a region representing El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. The aid affects nearly $500 million in 2018 funds and millions more left over from the prior fiscal year.

Trump has threatened for months to cut assistance to the three nations, igniting a fight inside the U.S. government with officials who say the funds actually help slow migration. The money goes to programs to address what authorities call the root causes of migration  issues such as poverty, a lack of jobs and violence.

The Trump administration, meanwhile, faced court challenges over its effort to divert funds for more border wall construction under a national emergency declaration.



William Rafael Carranza Martinez looks through the border wall before marrying his partner in Tijuana, Mexico, in April. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

On Friday night, during a trip to Florida, Trump said governments in Central America werent doing enough to slow migration. The number of apprehensions along the U.S.-Mexico border has been soaring, with more than 76,000 migrants taken into custody in February. Many are Central Americans seeking asylum.

Ive ended payments to Guatemala, to Honduras and El Salvador. No more money is going there anymore, Trump told reporters on Friday. We were giving them $500 million. We were paying them tremendous amounts of money, and were not paying them anymore because they havent done a thing for us.

Trumps comments came just a day after Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, signed what the department called a historic memorandum of cooperation on border security in Central America.

Over the past year, Trump has seized on the formation of giant caravans of U.S.-bound migrants as evidence that Mexico and Central America are doing little to discourage migration.

Authorities in the region have said they are taking what measures they can under their laws. Mexico, for example, has offered thousands of temporary humanitarian visas to migrants permitting them to stay and work in the country.

Raul Lopez, vice minister of justice in El Salvador, said in an interview this past week that the flow of migrants from his country was actually slowing.

We see that as proof that our investment  and the investment of the international community  in social issues is working, he said. U.S. assistance has had a positive impact in reducing migration from El Salvador, but we need more help to continue this fight.

Border Patrol apprehensions are far less than their peak of 1.6 million in 2000, but the Trump administration says the flows have changed in character. While most migrants used to be Mexican men who could be easily deported, now they are often asylum-seeking families who are entitled to protections under federal law.

Border Patrol agents have been overwhelmed in recent weeks by the arrival of large numbers of Central American families and children, many of whom are being quickly released into local communities because of a lack of detention space.

Congressional Democrats visiting El Salvador on Saturday said they were extremely disappointed about the aid cutoff.

The presidents approach is entirely counterproductive. It will only result in more children and families being forced to make the dangerous journey north to the U.S.-Mexico border, said the statement from the delegation, which included Rep. Eliot L. Engel (N.Y.), chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Rep. Jerrold Nadler (N.Y.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

The announcement of the aid cutoff comes as a new caravan of about 2,000 Central Americans and Cubans is crossing Mexico. Trump has threatened to close the border next week because of the rising flows of migrants.

John Hudson and Nick Miroff in Washington contributed to this report.

Read more

Todays coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news




A car passes a small boat harbor in King Cove, Alaska. (James Brooks/Kodiak Daily Mirror/AP)

A federal judge in Alaska declared late Friday that President Trumps order revoking a sweeping ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic and Atlantic oceans is illegal, putting 128 million acres of federal waters off limits to energy exploration.

The decision by U.S. District Judge Sharon Gleason is the third legal setback this week to Trumps energy and environmental policies. The judge, who was appointed to the federal bench by President Barack Obama in 2012, also blocked on Friday a land swap the Interior Department arranged that would pave the way for constructing a road through wilderness in a major National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.

Earlier this week, U.S. District Judge Lewis T. Babcock, who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, ruled that Interiors Bureau of Land Management and U.S. Forest Service illegally approved two gas drilling plans in western Colorado. The judge said officials did not adequately analyze wildlife and climate impacts in their plans  which were challenged by a coalition of environmental groups  to drill 171 wells in North Fork Valley, which provides key habitat for elk and mule deer.

Trumps rollbacks of Obama-era conservation policies have suffered nearly two dozen setbacks in federal court, largely on procedural grounds. While the administration is appealing many of these decisions and holds an advantage if the cases reach the Supreme Court, the rulings have slowed the presidents drive to expand fossil fuel production in the United States.

Earlier this month, for example, a federal judge halted drilling on more than 300,000 acres of oil and gas leases in Wyoming. Fridays decision on offshore drilling could affect a five-year leasing plan the administration plans to issue in the summer, as well as block the six offshore lease sales it proposed to schedule in the Arctic Ocean starting as early as this year.

President Trumps lawlessness is catching up with him, Erik Grafe, the lead attorney from the environmental law organization Earthjustice who argued to reinstate Obamas leasing withdrawals in the Arctic and Atlantic, said in a statement Friday. The judges ruling today shows that the president can not just trample on the constitution to do the bidding of his cronies in the fossil fuel industry at the expense of our oceans, wildlife, and climate.

Industry officials, however, said the administration could forge ahead with its offshore drilling process as litigation continued. While Fridays decision applies to 98 percent of the Arctic Ocean, it only covers undersea canyons in the Atlantic, stretching from the Chesapeake Bay to New England, as opposed to the entire Eastern Seaboard.

While we disagree with the decision, our nation still has a significant opportunity before us in the development of the next offshore leasing plan to truly embrace our nations energy potential and ensure American consumers and businesses continue to benefit from U.S. energy leadership, said Erik Milito, vice president of upstream and industry operations for the American Petroleum Institute.

The Interior Department declined to comment Saturday.

In her Friday ruling, Gleason wrote that the law in which Congress gave the president authority over offshore drilling  the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act  expressly allows for leasing withdrawals but does not state that a subsequent president can revoke those withdrawals without congressional approval.

As a result, the previous three withdrawals issued on January 27, 2015 and December 20, 2016 will remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by Congress, she wrote.

In a separate decision earlier in the day, Gleason found that then-Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke did not provide sufficient justification for reversing the governments stance on whether to allow a small, remote Alaska town to construct a road through the Izembek National Wildlife Refuge.

Residents of King Cove have argued for years that they need to bisect the refuge, which has been protected for decades and provides a critical rest stop for migratory waterfowl, for medical evacuations under rough weather.

In a statement Friday, local leaders there vowed to continue their fight.

The people of King Cove deserve to have access to a higher level of care, especially when the unforgiving weather prevents them from traveling from their isolated community by air or boat, said Aleutians East Borough Mayor Alvin D. Osterback. This land exchange would have accomplished that.

Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) also promised to continue pushing for building the road, which otherwise would be prohibited in a wilderness area. I will never stop until this road is a reality and the nearly 1,000 residents of this isolated community have a lifeline for emergency medical care, she said.

Opponents counter that the federal government has provided millions in funding to give town residents alternative forms of transport and warn that a road would fragment critical habitat. They also cite expert testimony that any road through the refuge would be impassable during snowstorms.

Here, the Secretarys failure to acknowledge the change in agency policy and his failure to provide a reasoned explanation for that change in policy are serious errors, Gleason wrote.


President Trump, shown above Friday at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla., has released a budget proposal that includes funding cuts to many popular federal programs. (Joshua Roberts/Reuters)

President Trump boasted this week that the Republican Party will soon be known as the party of great health care.

But a growing number of Republicans fear that it risks being tagged as the party of the 1 percent instead  handing Democrats a potent political message as the GOP pushes to gut former president Barack Obamas health-care law and other popular federal programs, including those that help the poor and people with disabilities.

A spate of policy moves in recent weeks by Republican lawmakers and Trump administration officials has driven the partys agenda hard to the right, giving new fodder to Democratic presidential candidates eager to shift the national debate to such issues as health care and jobs ahead of the 2020 election.

The administrations budget released this month, for example, includes massive rollbacks of programs including Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security Disability Insurance, as well as cuts to the Special Olympics, Meals on Wheels, and programs related to autism and other developmental disabilities.

Trump signaled his misgivings about some of those cuts in recent days  rescinding a proposal to zero out Special Olympics funding, which had sparked a bipartisan backlash, and promising to protect a cleanup program for the Great Lakes in states that could be crucial to his reelection.

Democrats said the broad efforts by Trump and Republicans to attack programs that aid lower-income and working-class Americans could help blunt the presidents populist appeal and provide voters with more reasons to consider supporting Democratic candidates. The debate bears echoes of Obamas successful reelection effort in 2012, when Democrats attacked now-Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) as an out-of-touch GOP nominee beholden to the wealthiest Americans.



Trump, accompanied by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), left, and Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), arrives Tuesday for a Senate Republican luncheon at the U.S. Capitol. (Jose Luis Magana/AP)

On Capitol Hill, the reaction is: Make my day, said Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-Ore). Democrats swept the midterms based on health care, among other key issues. The president is helping us make our case.

The policy blitz reflects the deeply conservative agenda at the core of Trumps administration. It is led by many influential aides and appointees who are unflinching ideologues, even as Trump prefers to call himself a nationalist or a businessman with common sense.

Coupled with fallout from the 35-day government shutdown that ended in January and a GOP tax plan that delivered major benefits to the wealthy, Republicans once again find themselves on the defensive  fending off Democrats who say theyre not just the party of Trump but also of the rich and powerful.

And they face growing questions of empathy on issues including the crush of asylum-seeking families at the southern border and disaster aid to Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, which Trump complained about in a private lunch Tuesday with Senate Republicans.

Were diving into a wood chipper, said Trump critic and longtime Republican strategist Mike Murphy. I guess thats the plan  being on the wrong side of issues, on top of the head winds were facing, with the House Freedom Caucus and Trumps ego providing our political compass.



Democratic presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren, shown campaigning last weekend in Memphis, said Republicans were trying to deprive people of a basic human right by cutting health care. (Jim Weber/AP)

Trumps move this week to focus on eliminating the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, also served to shift attention away from what the president and his allies viewed as vindication  the attorney generals conclusion that a special counsel did not establish a criminal conspiracy between Trumps 2016 campaign and Russia.

He has a penchant for distracting from the news  good or bad, apparently, House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) said. This presidency is the most disorganized that Ive seen  most self-destructive and most impulsive.

Republicans difficult balancing act on health care and other social programs was epitomized by congressional testimony this week from Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, who forcefully defended her agencys request to cut billions from the budget. Democrats attacked the plan as heartless and damaging to students who need the most help  particularly a proposal to eliminate $17.6 million in funding for the Special Olympics, which gives people with intellectual disabilities the chance to compete in athletics on a global stage.

Trumps political team was initially combative on the issue. A spokesman for Trumps reelection campaign, for example, suggested Thursday that abortion rights supporters cannot be sincerely concerned about the Special Olympics because they see abortion as the cure for Down syndrome.

But the national outcry about the fate of Special Olympics funding  including among Republicans such as Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.)  eventually led Trump to back off DeVoss hard line.

The Special Olympics will be funded, Trump told reporters Thursday. I have overridden my people. Were funding the Special Olympics.

Similar Republican divisions flared on health care this week as Trump decided to effectively revive efforts to throttle Obamas health-care law, which has survived nine years of GOP attempts to kill it even as it has expanded in scope and popularity.

Acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, a former conservative firebrand in the House, championed a court filing from the Justice Department on Monday arguing that the law should be thrown out in its entirety  including provisions protecting millions of Americans with preexisting health conditions and allowing young adults to stay on their parents plans.

Congressional Republicans, already on edge after seeing Democrats use health care to help win back the House majority, were immediately lukewarm to the move. Although wary of clashing with Trump, many GOP lawmakers dont see returning to the Affordable Care Act as a smart political play and would rather focus criticism on Medicare-for-all proposals from some leading Democrats.

Dear GOP: When Democrats are setting themselves ablaze by advocating for the destruction of American health care, try to resist the temptation of asking them to pass the kerosene, tweeted Josh Holmes, a Republican consultant and former chief of staff to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.).

House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) privately urged Trump to hold off on trying to destroy Obamas law through the courts, according to a White House official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk publicly. But the president ignored him and has since been telling Republican lawmakers to come up with a replacement plan.

If the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, well have a plan that is far better than Obamacare, Trump told reporters Wednesday.

McConnell, who would need to shepherd any health-care legislation through the Senate, has been muted in his response, telling Politico on Thursday that his priority on the issue is countering Democrats.

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders also showed no signs of backtracking, issuing a statement that railed against Democrats as promoters of a socialist agenda who sold Obamacare on lies and empty promises.

The president, when he feels momentum, he leaps, said Sen. Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.). He feels some wind at his back, he feels some momentum, and he thinks, Hey, lets take this on. 

But, he added with a laugh, Im not sure Id advise it that way.

Mulvaney has worked closely with acting White House budget director Russell T. Vought, a former congressional staffer with links to prominent conservative leaders. Vought is also at the center of other attempts to aggressively shrink federal social programs.

An aide to DeVos, for example, said the education secretary opposed Special Olympics cuts but was overruled by the Office of Management and Budget, which Vought runs. DeVos said in a statement Thursday that she welcomed Trumps reversal and that she had fought behind the scenes to maintain the funding.

Vought also coordinated the rollout of Trumps sweeping budget plan, which seeks significant spending cuts, including a 5 percent reduction across a range of programs dealing with foreign aid, environmental protection and transportation, among other initiatives.

Democrats, meanwhile, saw an opening this week to win new attention for their domestic policy agenda following the end of special counsel Robert S. Mueller IIIs Russia probe  and to court voters who may be unsettled by the GOP. Pelosi rolled out legislation aimed at shoring up Obamas health-care law and preserving the Paris climate accord.

Still, health care has been treacherous territory for both parties. It took eight years for Obamas health-care law to transition from a political burden for Democrats to a potential political lifeboat. Numerous 2020 presidential candidates also want to go further than Pelosi toward achieving universal health-care coverage, including various Medicare-for-all proposals that Republicans see as ripe political targets.

But for now, Democrats in Congress and on the campaign trail are rallying against Trump and the Republicans on traditional  and preferential  battlegrounds such as health care, social programs and federal spending.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) said Republicans were denying many Americans a basic human right, while South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg said the Trump administration wants to take away your health coverage, with no sign of a plan to help you if they win and you lose.

Laura Meckler, Damian Paletta and Felicia Sonmez contributed to this report.


Rep. Lauren Underwood (D-Ill.) speaks during a news conference unveiling health-care legislation to shore up the Affordable Care Act at the Capitol on Tuesday. (Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg)

House Democrats have spent several weeks battling over some of the most divisive policies, from support for Israel to combating climate change.

But no issue has the potential to sharply split the new majority quite like health care, with more than 100 of the caucuss most liberal lawmakers advocating a sweeping proposal for universal coverage that would eventually eliminate the employer-provided insurance plans that cover 80 percent of Americans.

The Medicare-for-all plan has also been dominating the nascent 2020 Democratic presidential campaign, serving as an ideological fault line to determine a candidates liberal bona fides.

Then came President Trump, acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and their decision Monday to push the Justice Department to argue in federal court that the entirety of the Affordable Care Act should be destroyed.

In a matter of days Democrats circled their wagons and geared up for a fight to defend what they consider the most important piece of domestic policy legislation of this century  a law they successfully defended on Capitol Hill two years ago that propelled them into a midterm election landslide and the House majority last November.

Okay, lets go, Rep. Lauren Underwood (D-Ill.) recalled thinking to herself. We have go do it again.

Rep. Katie Hill (D-Calif.) said that any attack on the ACA, through legislation or the courts, was the single most unifying issue for House Democrats  from Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), the liberal star of the freshman class, to Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.), the 29-year veteran centrist from a rural district Trump won by more than 30 percentage points.

Everybody agrees that the ACA is better than nothing, Hill said. You better believe not a single one of us is going to let that get overturned.

McCarthy blames Republican loss of House majority on GOP health care bill

Underwood and Hill are Exhibits A and B of the political potency of the health-care debate for Republicans, examples of why Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) are so reluctant to follow Trumps call to make the GOP the party of health care.

In 2017 Underwood, now 32, had never run for office but had served as a policy adviser at the Department of Health and Human Services during the implementation of the law commonly known as Obamacare. Back home in the exurbs outside Chicago, Underwood contemplated running for office and, once her Republican congressman voted to repeal the ACA, she knew her next move.

Thats how I decided to run, she recalled.

Hill, 31, entered the race for the longtime Republican seat north of Los Angeles in March 2017, also a first-time candidate who had been working for local nonprofits, including helping Californias expansion of Medicaid that came through the ACA.

At a town hall a few weeks later, she challenged the GOP incumbent, Steve Knight, to explain how he would vote on the ACA repeal legislation. He declined to talk about the hypothetical bill, only to vote for it not long thereafter.

It provided the foundation for her campaign, including early advertising about her husband suffering a collapsed lung just before they got married. They ended up $200,000 in debt because he was switching jobs and lacked health insurance.

That was the key driver for so many people from day one, Hill recalled of her campaign.

Underwood and Hill won their races, early 30-somethings running their first races and defeating veteran Republicans.

In a February conference call with donors this year, McCarthy pointed to the May 2017 vote as the moment the majority was basically lost. House conservatives rejected an early version of the repeal bill and negotiated a new plan that removed guaranteed protections for those with preexisting medical conditions and other critical benefits.

For the next 18 months Democratic campaigns unloaded on Republicans.

Basically, House Republicans handed Democrats a political club  and Democrats gleefully beat them over the head with it in the 2018 midterms, said Michael Steel, a longtime House GOP strategist who advised the independent advertising unit for the National Republican Congressional Committee last year.

On Thursday, McCarthy hesitated when asked to describe a conversation that he had with Trump about his party of health care declaration.

We support preexisting conditions, we have been very clear on that, and thats  a lot of our conversation was about that, McCarthy said.

Privately, McCarthy had told Trump it was a bad idea. He recognizes that the GOP pledge to repeal and replace Obamacare is the political Holy Grail for Republicans, just always out of reach and ending in spectacular failure in its pursuit.

McConnell is leaving any new health-care proposal to White House officials. Instead, he wants to put the focus back on Medicare-for-all to divide Democrats and appeal to swing voters by saying Democrats would bankrupt the government with their far-left policies.

I am focusing on stopping the Democrats Medicare-for-none scheme, he told Politicos Burgess Everett.

Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) spent last weekend with Trump and Mulvaney at the presidents Mar-a-Lago resort, at a fundraiser for the senator and golfing. He encouraged the president to go big on health care, telling him 2018 was a political bloodbath because Republicans had no counter to Democrats on the issue.

If we dont have a proposal on health care, then thats a mistake going into 2020, Graham told reporters after Trumps visit to the Senate GOP luncheon.

But Trump and Mulvaney went further than just considering a new proposal  they forced Justice to litigate against the entire ACA. That left all Republicans on the defensive on an issue they would rather just avoid.

Underwood called it another immediate and very present threat to the biggest unifying policy in the Democratic caucus. Before Trumps move, Democrats had been in what she politely described as the brainstorm phase of how to tackle the debate between shoring up the existing health-care system or ripping it apart and starting over.

That debate, on Capitol Hill and the presidential trail, has split Democrats apart. Then came the new assault on Obamacare, a law that she likened to a friend after a bar fight, battered and bruised. Its someone that everyone knew wasnt perfect, but everyone was ready to defend.

Shes still standing, Underwood said.

Read more from Paul Kanes archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook.


A common ailment is going around, and you probably know someone plagued by it. Caused in part by social media, the 24-hour news cycle and the pressure to check work email outside of office hours, it could hit you, too  especially if you dont know how to nip it in the bud.

Burnout is everywhere.

Books are being published about it, high-powered medical groups are raising alarms and ordinary people are feeling it. A recent report from Harvard and Massachusetts medical organizations declared physician burnout a public health crisis. It pointed out the problem not only harms doctors but also patients.

Burnout is associated with increasing medical errors, the paper said.

Ninety-five percent of human resource leaders say burnout is sabotaging workplace retention, often because of overly heavy workloads, one survey found. Poor management contributes to the burnout epidemic.

Organizations typically reward employees who are putting in longer hours and replace workers who arent taking on an increased workload, which is a systematic problem that causes burnout in the first place, says Dan Schawbel, research director of Future Workplace, the firm that conducted the survey along with Kronos.

"Mommy Burnout," a book published last year by psychologist Sheryl Ziegler, resonated with women who had run themselves into the ground trying to be super mom (and dads made it clear they were burned out, too).

A new book, Burnout: The Secret to Unlocking the Stress Cycle, by sisters Emily Nagoski (a health educator) and Amelia Nagoski (a choral conductor who was hospitalized for burnout) aims to help women, in particular, live a more balanced life.

Burnout is a term easily tossed around, the way somebody might claim to be starving when theyre simply hungry, or freezing when cold. Thats harmless if a person is describing a tired day or week. But somebody who is actually burned out should be prepared to take serious action because its a condition that needs attention.

[How you can battle burnout]

Amelia Nagoski was juggling the demands of a doctoral program when she experienced such severe abdominal pain she was hospitalized. Doctors concluded it was just stress and told her to relax. Turns out, she had stress-induced inflammation from burnout.

Ziegler defines burnout as chronic stress gone awry. The big three symptoms are emotional exhaustion, cynicism and feeling ineffective, according to the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), a survey designed to measure employee burnout in the workforce. Other symptoms can include frequent colds or sicknesses, insomnia and a tendency to alleviate stress in unhealthy ways, such as with too much alcohol or online shopping.

Part of the difficulty of pinpointing true burnout may be because burnout is a nonmedical term  at least in the United States. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders doesnt list it as an illness. But other countries including France, Denmark and Sweden, do recognize burnout syndrome and consider it to be a legitimate reason to take a sick day from work.

Everybody intuitively recognizes what burnout feels like in their bodies and their feelings and their thoughts, Emily Nagoski says. Its like art: You know it when you see it.

Even without an official diagnosis  or agreed upon definition  American researchers have studied burnout for decades. Psychologist Herbert Freudenberger popularized the term in the 1970s, basing it on his work with drug addicts where he witnessed their veins burn out from needle injections and their cigarettes burn down. Soon after, psychologist Christina Maslach developed the MBI.

Burnout is caused by chronic stress, not stressors, the Nagoskis say in their book. Its important to differentiate the two. Stressors are external: to-do lists, financial problems or anxiety about the future. Stress, on the other hand, is the neurological and physiological shift that happens in your body when you encounter [stressors], the Nagoskis write.

To fix burnout, people need to address the stress itself. They must allow their body to complete its stress response cycle. Instead, people tend to focus on stressors. They assume their stress will go away if theyre on top of things, if theyre accomplishing things and constantly checking things off their to-do list, Emily Nagoski says.

Thats a lesson Paula Davis-Laack learned the hard way.

Davis-Laack practiced commercial real estate law before the Great Recession of the late 2000s. The fast-paced environment gave her a constant adrenaline high as she closed deals and kept so busy that she barely left time to grab a handful of peanuts for lunch. Her frequent headaches, stomach aches and colds threatened to drag her down, but no doctor could give her a diagnosis.

One day, drafting a document in her office, she says she felt like she couldnt breathe. She bolted out of her chair and raced to a nearby health clinic. Help me! she gasped. She was having a panic attack. After two more medical crises landed her in the emergency room, she feared a mental or physical collapse if she kept going. She decided to walk away from the law.

It was like a 50,000-pound weight lifted off my shoulders, she says.

Still unsure of what was wrong, she poked around the Internet doing research of her own when she came across information on burnout. I was like, Oh my God, this is exactly what happened to me! 

Davis-Laack traces the beginning of her burnout back to her teenage years.

There were a lot of messages to be a high achiever, she says. Those check-the-box matrix measurements were important to me. I internalized them.

The messages took an even stronger hold once she started working.

She returned to graduate school to study well-being, the effects of stress and their effect on the workplace. In 2013, she opened the Davis Laack Stress & Resilience Institute in Wisconsin. She now teaches workshops on burnout.

For those who suspect they might be on the road to burnout, there are practical tools to mitigate it. Among others: physical exercise, sleep and positive social connection (the real kind, not the Facebook kind). The importance of balance and self-care to prevent burnout likely isnt surprising to most.

Theres nothing fancy about what it would take to turn things around, says Ziegler, the Mommy Burnout author. But its a huge shift in the cultural mind-set. Thats the challenge.

Plus, fixing burnout can feel like adding more stressors. An employee who takes a lunch break in a park (time in nature reduces stress) might feel pressured to stay late at the end of the day. A yoga class or walk is another item to squeeze into the calendar. A mom cant quit her parenting job. To address time-management issues, the Nagoskis provide work sheets in their book to help readers reprioritize activities. Ziegler suggests setting boundaries with social media. Use the Internet for help, such as ordering groceries, but limit scrolling to 10 minutes a day. Also, its okay to remove activities from the calendar (or quit them completely) so you can exercise.

Gender might play a role in burnout, too.

Researchers from the University of Montreal questioned 2,026 people, half women, in 63 different workplaces. Their work, published in the Annals of Work Exposure and Health, found that women reported higher levels of burnout.

One reason was because women have more work-and-family conflicts. The womens rights movement was supposed to give women choices, Ziegler says. Sounds awesome, but it became you need to do it all. You need to run your house and be the perfect wife and mom and work. The stress on women got higher.

Other studies have shown that rates of burnout are more or less equal among genders, although males and females experience it differently. A study published in BMC Public Health showed that female physicians are susceptible to burnout from emotional exhaustion while male physicians to burnout because of cynicism.

Steven Manning remembers the night he realized he had become pessimistic about practicing medicine. One Wednesday at his family care practice in Williamston, N.C., he worked on electronic medical records well past 9 p.m. His wife and kids waited for him at home. He had seen about 30 patients that day but felt he hadnt given a single one the highest level of care because the appointment times were too short. Yet the hospital and insurance companies kept pressuring him to see more patients a day, not fewer.

I began to think, Im burned out. How did I get to this point? I dont enjoy coming into work.  It wasnt too late to make a change. Within a year, Manning started a direct primary care practice, a model where patients pay a membership fee, negating the need for insurance billing. Without mounds of paperwork, he had time to do what he truly wanted: help patients.

It brought back the joy of medicine I felt I was missing, he says. Before, I barely had time to address my patients diabetes, hypertension and heart failure, let alone spend time taking a mental and spiritual inventory.

Now, he talks with patients about depression, anxiety and stress and notices many patients are burned out, especially mothers of young kids.

Lawyer and mom Anna Swain knows the feeling.

She poured her heart and soul into fixing the troubled lives of criminals who had messed up with drugs and violence only to wind up devastated when her hard work seemed pointless.

Id call my mom every day on my way home from the office crying, she says. I was either sad over a client who was having her third meth-addicted baby or crying over a shockingly rude email by opposing counsel. When she added motherhood to the mix, her feelings of failure increased. I didnt know what I was doing. Nobody does with a first child.

Burned out on doing the next thing I was supposed to do to be a good girl and get ahead, she knew she needed downtime, but she was afraid to take a step back from the hamster wheel. Boredom goes against everything were told to do to succeed, achieve and be proactive, Swain says. Even when I clean the house, I think, Well, I should take the opportunity to listen to a podcast. Maybe I can grow as a person. Honestly, Id grow more if I chose to be in silence and let my mind wander.

She tried it. Rocking her baby to sleep, she wanted to watch the TV series Game of Thrones or scroll through her phone. But she couldnt. One wrong move  or the glow of a screen  would wake her baby up. At first, Swain felt angry and resentful at the lack of distractions, but the stillness gave her an opportunity to daydream. That opened the door to creativity.

I started creating little poems and rhymes in my head. I felt exhilarated, she says. Eventually, Swain wrote a childrens book. I felt a sense of purpose again, she says.

The Nagoskis agree that daydreaming during low-demand tasks, having a creative outlet and engaging with something larger are three more keys to preventing burnout. They suggest writing your own obituary to find out what is meaningful to you.

It sounds dark, Amelia Nagoski says. But it makes you think about who you are and whats important to you.

Making space in our lives so were not so hurried and harried isnt easy, especially in a culture that shames slow living, Amelia Nagoski says. Preventing burnout requires hard decisions. Everyone has the same amount of time in a day: 24 hours. To rest  whether with a walk, an extra hour of sleep or a talk with a friend  means something else drops off the schedule.

At first, you might panic that youre not accomplishing something. But before long, you may notice youve moved farther away from a breaking point. Your downward spiral will change directions.

Read more

Even the small stresses of daily life can hurt your health, but attitude may make a difference

Suicides among veterinarians become a growing problem

Doctors are overloaded with electronic alerts, and thats bad for patients


Movement matters

Movement and deep breathing allow your body to complete its stress response cycle by releasing tension that has built up through the day, say Emily and Amelia Nagoski, authors of Burnout: The Secret to Unlocking the Stress Cycle. Give yourself any physical activity that doesnt require much thought. Walk, take a Zumba class or scrub the floor. I dread the thought of women looking for information about how to deal with burnout and being told to clean their kitchens, Emily says. But light housework counts as movement and can help if youre the type who loves spring cleaning. Even better, engage in physical activity with friends instead of plugging your ears with headphones. Shared laughter and togetherness help you feel safe and lowers stress levels, the Nagoskis say.

Ask for tiny noticeable things

Look at the balance between job demands and job resources, burnout expert Paula Davis-Laack says. A job demand is anything in your work that takes consistent effort or energy, she says, such as meetings, emails or finding new clients. Job resources are motivational, energy-giving aspect of your work. That list includes high-quality relationships with colleagues, autonomy, the opportunity to work on new things, having a mentor and receiving clear feedback. If your job demands are high and job resources are low, ask your boss for small changes to shift the balance. Davis-Laack calls these smalls shifts TNT: tiny noticeable things.

Create a corporate culture

Employers influence burnout, too. Organizations should enforce reasonable work hours, says Dan Schawbel, author of Back to Human: How Great Leaders Create Connection in the Age of Isolation. Companies can prevent employee burnout by developing a culture that encourages vacations and breaks. In France, for example, the Right to Disconnect law gives employees time away from email and phone calls after work hours. Promoting flexibility programs also helps prevent burnout because it allows employees control over when, where and how they work, Schawbel says. Think 30-hour workweeks, telecommuting or job sharing.

Care for you body, mind  and soul

In our mobile society with families often far apart, and in a day and age where religion is on the downturn, many dont have a community to turn to for help. When bad things happen, who do you go to? psychologist Sheryl Ziegler asks. It used to be the leader of the church. Im not saying you must go to the church you went to when you grew up, but that spirituality piece is valuable, no matter your beliefs. If you dont have a community, make one. Its that important.

 Jenny Rough

Read more


Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh concurred Thursday with the Supreme Courts liberal justices that a Buddhist mans execution should be stopped because he was not allowed a spiritual adviser by his side, but last month he was on the other side when the court allowed the execution of a Muslim inmate in Alabama under similar circumstances. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)

Its difficult to say with certainty why the Supreme Court on Thursday night stopped the execution of a Buddhist inmate in Texas because he was not allowed a spiritual adviser by his side, when last month it approved the execution of a Muslim inmate in Alabama under the almost exact circumstances.

But the obvious place to start is new Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, who seemed to have a change of heart.

Kavanaugh on Thursday was the only justice to spell out his reasoning: Texas could not execute Patrick Murphy without his Buddhist adviser in the room because it allows Christian and Muslim inmates to have religious leaders by their sides.

In my view, the Constitution prohibits such denominational discrimination, Kavanaugh wrote.

[Supreme Court stops execution because of religious concerns, a contrast to last month]

But Kavanaugh was on the other side last month when Justice Elena Kagan and three other justices declared profoundly wrong Alabamas decision to turn down Muslim Domineque Rays request for an imam to be at his execution, making available only a Christian chaplain.

That treatment goes against the Establishment Clauses core principle of denominational neutrality, Kagan wrote then.

Kavanaugh and the courts other conservatives did not address Kagans argument, saying only that Ray had brought his challenge too late.

Kavanaugh said in a footnote Thursday he was satisfied with the timing of Murphys litigation. But the difference in when Ray and Murphy brought their requests was not substantial.

Some critics of the court wondered if the difference was one of race and religion. Murphy is white and turned to Buddhism in prison. Ray, who was executed within hours of the courts decision Feb. 7, was black.

But the court in just the last few years has ruled for Muslim petitioners who claimed discrimination: an inmate who was not allowed to grow a short beard because of prison policies, and a woman who was denied a job at Abercrombie & Fitch because of her hijab.

[Supreme Court allows suit by Muslim woman who says headscarf cost her a job]

Ilya Somin, a law professor at the Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University and a sharp critic of the courts decision in Dunn v. Ray, said the most logical explanation is the court was stung by the barrage of criticism it received from the left and the right.

The justices belatedly realized they had made a mistake; and not just any mistake, but one that inflicted real damage on their and the courts reputations, Somin wrote on the Volokh Conspiracy blog.

Presented with a chance to correct their error and signal that they will not tolerate religious discrimination in death penalty administration, they were willing to bend over backwards to seize the opportunity, and not let it slip away.

Deepak Gupta, a Washington lawyer who argues before the court and called the Ray decision indefensible, tweeted: This is how the Supreme Court tries to erase a very recent and obvious moral error without admitting error. Is the Alabama case materially different? They dont say.

It is not clear from the ruling what role Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who were in the majority in the Ray case, played in the Murphy case. They did not join Kavanaughs opinion, nor did they note, as Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch did, that they would have allowed the execution to proceed.

[Supreme Courts execution decision animates critics on the left and right]

Somin said he is fairly confident Alito and Roberts switched because they did not record themselves as objecting, as Thomas and Gorsuch did.

In a high-profile case like this, it would be strange for some justices to clearly indicate their dissent, while others who agreed with that stance kept silent and thereby created the impression they agree with the majority, Somin said in an email.

But that is not always the case, and Kavanaugh plus the dissenters in the Ray case would have been enough to force the outcome in the Murphy case.

The order stayed Murphys execution until the court decides to take up the case on its merits or Texas permits Murphys Buddhist spiritual advisor or another Buddhist reverend of the states choosing to accompany Murphy in the execution chamber during the execution.

The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, which filed a brief on Murphys behalf, said it attempted to disentangle the religious liberty issue from the last-minute attempts to stop executions that irritate the courts conservative majority.

This particular appeal does not present a challenge to the constitutionality of the death penalty, nor is it a challenge to Texas execution of Murphy, the brief argues. This is instead a challenge to the conditions of Murphys confinement immediately prior to his execution.

Beckets First Amendment argument hinged on a point that often separates the courts liberals and conservatives.

Rays lawyers, and the appeals court that at first held up his execution, said Alabamas policy of only employing a Christian chaplain and making him the only cleric available at executions violates the prohibition on government endorsement of one religion over another.

Becket and Murphys lawyers argued that the constitutional right at issue was the inmates ability to practice his religion.

The right of a condemned person to the comfort of clergy  and the rights of clergy to comfort the condemned  are among the longest-standing and most well-recognized forms of religious exercise known to civilization, Beckets brief said.


Published: July 1, 2014.

These Terms of Service (Terms) apply when you use a website, mobile application, or other online service (collectively, the Services) that links or refers to the Terms. These terms are a legal contract between you and WP Company LLC (The Washington Post, we or us) so it is important that you review them carefully before using the Services. Your use of the Services indicates that you agree to follow and be bound by the Terms, which include the Discussion and Submission Guidelines. If you do not agree to the Terms, do not access or use the Services.

THESE TERMS CONTAIN DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTIES (SECTION 11) AND DISCLAIMERS OF LIABILITY (SECTION 12).

1. General

We may change the Terms or modify any features of the Services at any time at our sole discretion. The most current version of the Terms can be viewed by clicking on the Terms of Service link at the bottom of the Services home page. If you continue to use the Services after changes are posted you will be deemed to have accepted the change.

2. Compliance With Applicable Laws

As a condition of your access to and use of the Services, you agree that you will not use the Services for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited by these Terms and that you will comply with all applicable laws and any conditions or restrictions imposed by these terms. The Services are offered for your personal and non-commercial use only, and you are prohibited from using, and are expressly not granted the right to use, the Services for any other purpose.

3. Privacy

By using the Services, you indicate that you understand the information collection, use, and disclosure practices described in the Privacy Policy.

4. Discussion And Submission Guidelines

The Services allow you to post content and communicate with others. This content may include text, images, photographs, audio, video, or material in any other form. You represent that you have read and agree to abide by the Discussion and Submission Guidelines, which are incorporated by reference into these Terms, and that by making a submission you are consenting to its display and publication on the Services and in related online and offline promotional materials, in accordance with the guidelines. We may change or modify those guidelines at any time.

By posting content on, to, or through the Services, you give us the right to display such content on the Services and through affiliated publications and to distribute such content and use such content for promotional and marketing purposes, pursuant to the terms of the Discussion and Submission Guidelines. Specifically, you provide us with a royalty-free, irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide, exclusive, and fully sublicensable license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, incorporate into other works, distribute, perform, display, and otherwise exploit such content, in whole or in part in any form, media or technology now known or later developed.

5. Copyright

The Services (including, but not limited to, text, photographs, graphics, video, audio content, and computer code) are protected by copyright as collective works or compilation under the copyright laws of the United States and other countries. All individual articles, photographs, graphics, video, audio, and other content or elements comprising the Services are also copyrighted works. All copyrights in the Services are owned by us or by our third-party licensors to the extent permitted under the United States Copyright Act and all international copyright laws. Except for content that you have posted on the Services, or unless expressly authorized by The Washington Post in writing, you are prohibited from publishing, reproducing, distributing, publishing, entering into a database, displaying, performing, modifying, creating derivative works, transmitting, or in any way exploiting any part of the Services, except that you may make use of the content for your own personal use as follows: you may make one machine readable copy and/or print copy that is limited to occasional articles of personal interest only. To obtain written consent to use a copyrighted work, please see our Reprints & Permissions section.

Just as The Washington Post requires users to respect our copyrights, and those of our affiliates and partners, we respect the copyrights of others. If you believe in good faith that your copyrighted work has been reproduced on our site without authorization in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, you may notify our designated copyright agent either by mail to Copyright Agent, c/o Legal Department, The Washington Post, 1301 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20071 or to copyrightagent@washpost.com. Please provide our copyright agent with the following information in writing:

An electronic or physical signature of the person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the exclusive right that is allegedly infringed;

Identification of the copyrighted work or a representative list of the works claimed to have been infringed;

Identification of the allegedly infringing material and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material;

Your name, address, telephone number, and email address, so that we may contact you if necessary;

A statement that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and

A statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owners behalf.

6. Trade and Service Mark Rights.

All rights in the product names, company names, trade names, logos, service marks, trade dress, slogans, product packaging, and designs of the Services, whether or not appearing in large print or with the trademark symbol, belong exclusively to The Washington Post or its licensors and are protected from reproduction, imitation, dilution, or confusing or misleading uses under national and international trademark and copyright laws. The use or misuse of these trademarks or any materials, except as permitted herein, is expressly prohibited, and nothing stated or implied on the Services confers on you any license or right under any patent or trademark of The Washington Post, its affiliates, or any third party.

7. Prohibited Conduct

You may not access or use, or attempt to access or use, the Services to take any action that could harm us or any third party, interfere with the operation of the Services, or use the Services in a manner that violates any laws. For example, and without limitation, you may not:

Post content that is prohibited by or otherwise not in compliance with these Terms (including the Discussion and Submission Guidelines).

Make use of the contents of the Services in any manner that constitutes an infringement of our rights or the rights of other users or third parties, including copyrights.

Access parts of the Services to which you are not authorized, or attempt to circumvent any restrictions imposed on your use or access of the Services.

Copy, reproduce, distribute, publish, enter into a database, display, perform, modify, create derivative works, transmit, or in any way exploit any part of the Services, except for content you have posted on the Services, or unless expressly authorized. You may download material from the Services solely for your own personal use as follows: you may make one machine readable copy and/or one print copy that is limited to occasional articles of personal interest only.

Distribute any part of the Services over any network, including a local area network, nor sell or offer it for sale. See our Reprints & Permissions section for more information on distribution. In addition, these files may not be used to construct any kind of database.

Engage in unauthorized scraping or spidering, or harvesting of personal information, or use any unauthorized automated means to compile information.

Take any action that imposes an unreasonable or disproportionately large load on our network or infrastructure.

Use any device, software, or routine to interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the Services or any activity conducted on the Services.

Use or attempt to use any engine, software, tool, agent, or other device or mechanism (including, without limitation, browsers, spiders, robots, avatars, or intelligent agents) to navigate or search the Services other than the search engine and search agents available on the Services and other than generally available third-party web browsers.

Attempt to decipher, decompile, disassemble, or reverse-engineer any of the software comprising or in any way making up a part of the Services

Engage in any other conduct that restricts or inhibits any other person from using or enjoying the Services.

Take any action that violates or threatens our system or network security.

Violations of these Terms may result in civil or criminal liability. We may investigate violations of these Terms and we may also work with law enforcement authorities to prosecute users who violate the Terms.

8. Registration and Security

To register for certain Services, you will create login credentials by providing an email address to us and by selecting a username and password. You also provide us certain information during the registration process, which you agree to keep accurate and updated. Each login is for a single user only. You are not allowed to share or disclose your login credentials with any other user or person. We may cancel or suspend your access to the Services if you share your credentials.

You may also sign in to certain Services using your Facebook login information.

You will be responsible for all usage and activity on your account, including use of the account by any third party authorized by you to use your login credentials, and for all charges for any goods or services. You are also responsible for all statements made or materials posted under your account, including liability for harm caused by such statements or materials. You may not transfer, sell, or otherwise assign your rights or obligations under these Terms.

You must be 13 years or older to use the Services. Any fraudulent, abusive, or otherwise illegal activity may be grounds for termination of your account, at our sole discretion, and we may refer you to appropriate law enforcement agencies.

9. Charges for Services

We may charge for access to portions of the Services or to the Services as a whole, and we reserve the right at any time to change the amount we charge for such access or subscriptions that include authorization to access the Services. In such event, we will notify you in advance, and give you an opportunity to subscribe (or un-subscribe) to the Service(s). More information about any such subscriptions can be found on the appropriate locations of the Services. You shall pay all applicable taxes relating to use of the services, and recognize that any fees to third parties that may be required for you to receive the service (such as mobile data plans and text-message charges) are not included in the cost of the services.

10. Third-Party Content and Links to Third-Party Websites

The Services may contain third-party owned content and links to other websites (Linked Sites). The Washington Post does not endorse, sponsor, recommend, or otherwise accept responsibility for any Linked Sites. In addition, Linked Sites are not under the control of The Washington Post, and The Washington Post is not responsible for the content or privacy practices of the Linked Sites.

11. Disclaimer of Warranties

THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED AS IS. WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. THERE MAY BE DELAYS, OMISSIONS, INTERRUPTIONS, AND INACCURACIES IN THE NEWS, INFORMATION, OR OTHER MATERIALS AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES. The Washington Post DISCLAIMS TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY AND ALL SUCH REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. IF YOU RELY ON THE SERVICES AND ANY MATERIALS MADE AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES, YOU DO SO SOLELY AT YOUR OWN RISK

WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, THE WASHINGTON POST DISCLAIMS TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY AND ALL (A) WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, (B) WARRANTIES AGAINST INFRINGEMENT OF ANY THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, (C) WARRANTIES RELATING TO THE TRANSMISSION OR DELIVERY OF THE SERVICE, (D) WARRANTIES RELATING TO THE ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, CORRECTNESS, TIMELINESS OR COMPLETENESS OF DATA MADE AVAILABLE ON THE SERVICES OR OTHERWISE BY THE WASHINGTON POST, INCLUDING ANY ADVICE, OPINION, STATEMENT, OR OTHER MATERIAL OR DATABASE DISPLAYED, UPLOADED OR DISTRIBUTED IN THE SERVICES OR AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES, AND WARRANTIES OTHERWISE RELATING TO PERFORMANCE, NONPERFORMANCE, OR OTHER ACTS OR OMISSIONS BY THE WASHINGTON POST OR ANY THIRD PARTY. FURTHER, THERE IS NO WARRANTY THAT THE SERVICES WILL MEET YOUR NEEDS OR REQUIREMENTS OR THE NEEDS OR REQUIREMENTS OF ANY OTHER PERSON.

THE WASHINGTON POST MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED (A) THAT THE INFORMATION PROVIDED THROUGH THE SERVICES WILL BE FREE FROM ERROR, OMISSION, INTERRUPTION, DEFECT, OR DELAY IN OPERATION, OR FROM TECHNICAL INACCURACIES OR TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS, (B) THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE AVAILABLE AT ANY PARTICULAR TIME OR LOCATION (C) THAT DEFECTS OR ERRORS IN THE SERVICES WILL BE CORRECTED, OR (D) THAT THE CONTENT ON THE SERVICES ARE FREE OF VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS. ANY INFORMATION ON THE SERVICES IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE, AND THE WASHINGTON POST DISCLAIMS ALL RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SERVICES. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CORRECT ANY ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN THE SERVICES.

12. Limitation of Liability

IN NO EVENT WILL THE WASHINGTON POST OR ITS AFFILIATES OR ANY PARTY INVOLVED IN CREATING, PRODUCING, OR DELIVERING THE SERVICES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF YOUR ACCESS, USE, MISUSE, OR INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICES OR ANY LINKED SITES, OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY FAILURE OF PERFORMANCE, ERROR, TRANSMISSION, COMPUTER VIRUS, OR LINE OR SYSTEM FAILURE. THESE LIMITATIONS APPLY WHETHER THE ALLEGED LIABILITY IS BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR ANY OTHER BASIS, EVEN IF THE WASHINGTON POST HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. BECAUSE SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, THE WASHINGTON POSTS LIABILITY IN SUCH JURISDICTIONS SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW.

13. Indemnification

You agree to indemnify and hold harmless The Washington Post and its parent, subsidiaries, and affiliates, and their owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, shareholders, agents, and licensors, from and against all losses, expenses, damages and costs, including reasonable attorneys fees, resulting from any violation of the Terms, including the Discussion and Submission Guidelines, or the failure to fulfill any obligations relating to your account incurred by you or any other person using your account. We reserve the right to take over the exclusive defense of any claim for which we are entitled to indemnification under this Section. In such event, you shall provide us with such cooperation as is reasonably requested by us.

14. Governing Law

This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the United States and the District of Columbia. By using the Services, you waive any claims that may arise under the laws of other states, countries, territories or jurisdictions.

15. Termination

The Washington Post may terminate this agreement for any reason at any time. The Washington Post reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to restrict, suspend, or terminate your access to and use of the Service, with or without prior notice. Otherwise applicable sections of the Terms shall survive termination. In addition to any termination rights, we reserve the right to enforce and prosecute any violations of these Terms.

16. Miscellaneous

Supplemental Terms . In connection with your use of the Services, you may be asked to consent to policies or terms and conditions in addition to these Terms. Please read these supplemental policies and terms carefully before making any use of such portions of the Services. Any supplemental terms will not vary or replace these Terms regarding any use of the Services, unless otherwise expressly stated.

No Waiver. The failure of The Washington Post to enforce any provisions of the Terms or to respond to a breach by you or other parties shall not in any way waive its rights to enforce subsequently any terms or conditions of the Terms or to act with respect with similar breaches.

No Partnership . You agree that no joint venture, partnership, employment, or agency relationship exists between you and The Washington Post as a result of these Terms or your access to and use of the Services.

Entire Agreement. Unless otherwise specified herein, the Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and The Washington Post and govern your use of the Services. If any portion of the Terms is held invalid or unenforceable, that portion shall be construed in a manner consistent with applicable law to reflect, as nearly as possible, the original intention of the parties, and the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.


Published: May 24, 2018

WP Company LLC (The Washington Post) recognizes the importance of protecting the privacy of your personal information, and we have prepared this Privacy Policy to provide you with important information about our privacy practices. This Privacy Policy applies when you use a website, mobile or tablet application, or other online service (collectively, the Services) that links or refers to it. It does not govern or apply to information collected or used by WP Company LLC through other means.

If you are a user in the European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland, please see the Users in the EEA and Switzerland section of this Privacy Policy for additional provisions that are applicable to your use of the Services.

Our Privacy Shield Policy governs use of personal information that has been transferred to us from organizations in the EEA and Switzerland.

This Privacy Policy covers the following:

Information We Collect

We may collect personal information about our users in various ways. For example, we may collect information that you provide to us, information that we collect through your use of the Services, and information that we collect from publicly available sources or third parties.

Information You Provide to Us. When you register or otherwise interact with the Services, you may be invited to provide personal information to enhance your experience on the Services. For example, during account registration, we may ask for information such as your name, e-mail address, year of birth, gender, street address, job title and industry and related information. We may collect payment information, such as your credit card number and expiration date, where appropriate to process a financial transaction you have requested.

We also collect information that you provide us when you comment on articles, participate in message boards, and submit images, photos, videos, or other content to the Services. We may ask you for additional information at other times, such as when you enter a contest or participate in a promotion, when you post an online ad, or when you order products from us or otherwise engage with the Services. Please review our Discussion and Submission Guidelines for more information about our practices applicable to content that you submit to certain areas of our Services.

Information About Your Use of the Services. In addition to the information you provide to us directly, we may collect information about your use of the Services. For example, we may collect:

Device information  such as your hardware model, IP address, other unique device identifiers, operating system version, browser type and settings, such as language and available font settings, and settings of the device you use to access the Services.

 such as your hardware model, IP address, other unique device identifiers, operating system version, browser type and settings, such as language and available font settings, and settings of the device you use to access the Services. Usage information  such as information about the Services you use, the time and duration of your use of the Services and other information about your interaction with content offered through a Service, and any information stored using cookies, mobile ad identifiers, and similar technologies that we have set on your device. For detailed information about our use of cookies, web beacons, and other technologies, see the Online Tracking and Advertising section below.

 such as information about the Services you use, the time and duration of your use of the Services and other information about your interaction with content offered through a Service, and any information stored using cookies, mobile ad identifiers, and similar technologies that we have set on your device. For detailed information about our use of cookies, web beacons, and other technologies, see the section below. Location information such as your computers IP address, your mobile devices GPS signal or information about nearby WiFi access points and cell towers that may be transmitted to us when you use certain Services.

Information From Third-Party Sources. We may receive information about you from publicly and commercially available sources, as permitted by law, which we may combine with other information we receive from or about you. For example, we may receive information about you from a social media site if you connect to the Services through that site.

Other Information We Collect. We also may collect other information about you, your device, or your use of the services in ways that we describe to you at the point of collection or otherwise with your consent. You may choose not to provide us with certain types of information, but doing so may affect your ability to use some of the Services.

How We Use Information

To Provide and Manage the Services You Request. This includes, for example, processing your subscription, sending you electronic newsletters, or enabling you to participate in the features provided by the Services. It also includes providing personalized content and recommendations to you, including by email. Through such features, we are able to bring you information and content tailored to your individual interests and needs.

To Contact You. We may periodically contact you with offers and information about the Services and our affiliates, including in connection with your accounts, online surveys, legal notices, news stories, new features that you are entitled to access, and other important information. You may opt out of receiving commercial email messages from us by following the instructions contained in those email messages.

To Deliver Targeted Advertising. We may use your information to facilitate the delivery of targeted ads, promotions, and offers to you, on behalf of ourselves and advertisers, on and off the Services. Please see the Online Tracking and Advertising section for further information about our and third parties use of cookies, web beacons, mobile ad identifiers, and other tracking technologies to provide you relevant ads, as well as information about how to disable cookies and make other choices related to targeted advertising.

To Better Understand Our Readers and Users. The Services conduct research on our users demographics, interests and behavior based on the information we collect. We do this to better understand and serve our users, and to improve our products and services.

To Protect the Rights of the Services and others. We may use your personal information as we believe is necessary or appropriate to protect, enforce, or defend the legal rights, privacy, safety, or property of the Services, its employees or agents, or other users and to comply with applicable law.

Consent. We may otherwise use your information with your consent or at your direction.

Sharing of Information

The following provides information about entities with which we may share information. Our practices vary depending on the type of information.

Affiliates. We may share information within our family of affiliated companies.

Business Partners. We may also share your information with business partners to provide you with services that you request. For example, if you sign up for a promotion that runs on our Services but that is sponsored or co-sponsored by another company, your information may be shared with that sponsor. The Washington Post is not responsible for the privacy practices of these entities.

Service Providers. We may share information with vendors providing contractual services to us, such as hosting vendors, advertising service providers, and list managers. We also may share your information, including your payment information, as appropriate to process your payments for the Services or complete a transaction.

Other Parties When Required by Law or As Necessary to Protect Our Users and Services. We may share your personal information as we believe is necessary or appropriate to protect, enforce, or defend the legal rights, privacy, safety, or property of the Services, our employees or agents or users or to comply with applicable law or legal process, including responding to requests from public and government authorities.

Logging In Through Social Media Services. If you log into the Services with a social media service or if you connect a social media account with the Services, we may share your information with that social media service. The social media services use of the shared information will be governed by the social media services privacy policy and your social media account settings. If you do not want your information shared in this way, do not connect your social media service account with your Services.

Third Parties that Provide Content, Advertising, or Functionality. When you use our Services, third parties may collect or receive certain information about you and/or your use of the Services (e.g., hashed data, click stream information, browser type, time and date, information about your interactions with advertisements and other content), including through the use of cookies, beacons, mobile ad identifiers, and similar technologies, in order to provide content, advertising, or functionality or to measure and analyze ad performance, on our Services or other websites or platforms. This information may be combined with information collected across different websites, online services, and other linked or associated devices. These third parties may use your information to improve their own services and consistent with their own privacy policies.

Other Parties in Connection With a Corporate Transaction. We reserve the right to transfer any information we have about you in the event that we sell or transfer all or a portion of our business or assets to a third party, such as in the event of a merger, acquisition, or in connection with a bankruptcy reorganization.

Otherwise With Your Consent or At Your Direction. In addition to the sharing described in this Privacy Policy, we may share information about you with third parties whenever you consent to or direct such sharing.

We also may share other information with third parties in a manner that does not identify particular users, including, for example, aggregated data about how users are using our Services.

For users in the EEA and Switzerland: Please see our Third-Party Partners page for a list of partners that provide certain features or functionality on the Services (e.g., content, analytics, advertising, and social media plug-ins) that may use your data, as well as more information about these partners use of your data and your rights.

Embedded Content and Links to Third-Party Sites and Services

Our Services may embed content from, or link to, third-party websites and services, including social media platforms, that are outside of our control. We are not responsible for the security or privacy of any information collected by other websites or other services. This Privacy Policy does not govern these third partys content or services, and we encourage you to review the privacy statements applicable to the third-party websites and services you use.

How to Access or Update Your Information & Other Privacy Choices Available To You

Manage Your washingtonpost.com Account. You may access or modify your washingtonpost.com account on the User Profile page. This link will also allow you to update your subscriptions to electronic newsletters provided by the Services and to view your comment history.

Email Promotions. You may opt out of receiving commercial email messages from us by following the instructions contained in those email messages.

Targeted Advertising. You may choose whether to receive some forms of targeted advertising from many ad networks, audience segment providers, ad serving vendors, and other service providers by visiting websites operated by the Network Advertising Initiative and Digital Advertising Alliance . Please see the Online Tracking and Advertising section and visit our Ad Choices pages for further information about how to disable cookies and other choices that may be available to you with respect to certain types of targeted advertising.

Data Security

We have in place physical, electronic and managerial procedures to protect the information we collect online. However, as effective as these measures are, no security system is impenetrable. We cannot guarantee the security of our database, nor can we guarantee that the information you supply will not be intercepted while being transmitted to us over the Internet.

Other Important Information

Childrens Privacy. We do not knowingly collect any personal information from children under the age of 16 without parental consent, unless permitted by law. If we learn that a child under the age of 16 has provided us with personal information, we will delete it in accordance with applicable law.

Your California Privacy Rights. (a) California residents are entitled once a year, free of charge, to request and obtain certain information regarding our disclosure, if any, of certain categories of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes in the preceding calendar year. We do not share personal information with third parties for their own direct marketing purposes. (b) California residents who are registered users of the Services and are under the age of 18 are entitled, in accordance with California law, to request and obtain removal of content and information that they themselves post on the Services. You may request such removal by emailing us at comments@washpost.com. In your request, please provide a description of the material that you want removed and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material, and include your name, email address and/or Washington Post website user name, year of birth, mailing address (including city, state, and zip code), and the subject line California Removal Request so that we can process your request. Please note that your request does not ensure complete or comprehensive removal of the material. For example, materials that you have posted may be republished or reposted by another user or third party.

Do-Not-Track Signals and Similar Mechanisms. Some web browsers may transmit do-not-track signals to the websites with which the user communicates. Because of differences in how web browsers incorporate and activate this feature, it is not always clear whether users intend for these signals to be transmitted, or whether they even are aware of them. Because there currently is no industry standard concerning what, if anything, websites should do when they receive such signals, the Services currently do not take action in response to these signals. If and when a final standard is established and accepted, we will reassess how to respond to these signals. In the meantime, please see Online Tracking & Advertising for additional information about privacy choices that may be available to you with respect to targeted advertising.

International Transfers. The Services are headquartered in the United States. Please be aware that information you provide to us or that we obtain as a result of your use of the Services may be collected in your country and subsequently transferred to the United States or to another country in accordance with applicable law. By using the Services, you consent to the collection, international transfer, storage, and processing of your information

Changes to Our Privacy Policy

We may modify this Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of changes by posting changes here, or by other appropriate means. Any changes to the Privacy Policy will become effective when the updated policy is posted on the Services. Your use of the Services or your provision of personal information to use the Services following such changes indicates your acceptance of the revised Privacy Policy.

Online Tracking & Advertising

How We Use Cookies, Web Beacons, and Similar Technologies and How To Disable These Technologies

We and third parties that provide content, advertising, or functionality or measure and analyze ad performance on our Services, may use cookies, web beacons, mobile ad identifiers, and similar technologies to facilitate administration and navigation on the Site, to better understand and improve our Services, to determine and/or improve the advertising shown to you here or elsewhere, and to provide you with a customized online experience.

Cookies. Cookies are small files that are placed on your computer when you visit a website. Cookies may be used to store a unique identification number tied to your computer or device so that you can be recognized as the same user across one or more browsing sessions, and across one or more sites. Cookies serve many useful purposes. For example:

Cookies can remember your sign-in credentials so you do not have to enter those credentials each time you visit a Service

Cookies can help us and third parties understand which parts of our Services are the most popular because they help us see which pages and features visitors access and how much time they spend on the pages. By studying this kind of information, we are better able to adapt our Services and provide you with a better experience.

Cookies help us and third parties understand which ads you have seen so that you dont receive the same ad each time you access a Service.

Most browsers accept cookies automatically, but can be configured not to do so or to notify the user when a cookie is being sent. If you wish to disable cookies, refer to your browser help menu to learn how to disable cookies. If you disable browser cookies or flash cookies, it may interfere with the proper functioning of the Services.

Beacons. We, along with third parties, also may use technologies called beacons (or pixels) that communicate information from your device to a server. Beacons can be embedded in online content, videos, and emails, and can allow a server to read certain types of information from your device, know when you have viewed particular content or a particular email message, determine the time and date on which you viewed the beacon, and the IP address of your device. We and third parties use beacons for a variety of purposes, including to analyze the use of our Services and (in conjunction with cookies) to provide content and ads that are more relevant to you.

Local Storage & Other Tracking Technologies. We, along with third parties, may use other kinds of technologies, such as Local Shared Objects (also referred to as Flash cookies) and HTML5 local storage, in connection with our Services. We also may use unique identifiers associated with your device, such as mobile ad identifiers. These technologies are similar to the cookies discussed above in that they are stored on your device and can be used to store certain information about your activities and preferences. However, these technologies may make use of different parts of your device from standard cookies, and so you might not be able to control them using standard browser tools and settings. For HTML5 local storage, the method for disabling HTML5 will vary depending on your browser. For Flash cookies, information about disabling or deleting information contained in Flash cookies can be found here.

Additional Choices With Respect To Targeted Advertising

As described above, we and third parties may use cookies and other tracking technologies to facilitate serving relevant ads to you. For example, these technologies help us determine whether you have seen a particular advertisement before, tailor ads to you if you have visited our site before, and avoid sending you duplicate advertisements. You can learn more about certain types of targeted advertising by visiting the Digital Advertising Alliance website or our Ad Choices page.

In addition to disabling cookies and other tracking technologies as described above, you may opt-out of receiving targeted advertising from participating ad networks, audience segment providers, ad serving vendors, and other service providers by visiting websites operated by the Network Advertising Initiative and Digital Advertising Alliance .

Due to differences between using apps and websites on mobile devices, you may need to take additional steps to disable tracking technologies in mobile apps. Many mobile devices allow you to opt-out of targeted advertising for mobile apps using the settings within the mobile app or your mobile device. For more information, please check your mobile settings. You also may uninstall our apps using the standard uninstall process available on your mobile device or app marketplace.

Please visit our Ad Choices page for additional information and privacy choices.

Users in the EEA and Switzerland

If you are a user in the EEA or Switzerland. the following information applies with respect to personal data collected through your use of our Services.

Purposes of processing and legal basis for processing.We process personal data consistent with our disclosures in this Privacy Policy. We process personal data on the following legal bases: (1) with your consent; (2) as necessary to perform our agreement to provide Services to you; and (3) as necessary for our legitimate interests in providing the Services where those interests do not override your fundamental rights and freedoms related to data privacy.

Transfers. Personal data we collect may be transferred to, and stored and processed in, the United States or any other country in which we or our affiliates or processors maintain facilities. We will ensure that transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organization are subject to appropriate safeguards.

Individual Rights. If you are a resident of the EEA or Switzerland, you have certain rights under Chapter 3 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation. To make a request or otherwise exercise your rights under Chapter 3, you can contact us here. In order to respond to your request, we will need to verify your identity and residency and may require you to provide us with supporting information.

For More Information. Please contact us here.


Columnist

It has been nearly six months since Jamal Khashoggi was brutally murdered inside Saudi Arabias consulate in Istanbul, but the aftershocks continue. The U.S.-Saudi defense and intelligence partnership has been rocked. The future of the relationship is on hold, pending answers from Riyadh.

Saudi Arabia still hasnt explained officially how and why the Post Global Opinions columnist was killed. But Saudi and American sources have begun disclosing new information about the people and events surrounding Khashoggis fatal visit to Istanbul. Theyve described secret intelligence deals that are now frozen. And theyve explained, in the clearest detail yet, how an operation that began as a kidnapping ended with a gasping, dying Khashoggi pleading: I cant breathe.

The basic questions remain much the same as they did in October, when Khashoggi died: How was the Istanbul strike team that carried out the operation trained and controlled? What exact roles did Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and his close aides play in the killing? What new controls can be implemented, in Riyadh and Washington, to make sure that such a grisly murder of a journalist never happens again?

And most important, will anyone be held accountable?

Saudi Arabias initial lies about the killing collapsed soon after Khashoggi disappeared on Oct. 2. But MBS, as the crown prince is known, still hasnt taken responsibility for the killers actions, which were done on his behalf and perhaps his orders. Until he provides real answers, the U.S.-Saudi military and intelligence partnership, important for both countries security, is likely to remain in limbo.

This case is personal for us at The Post. Khashoggi was our colleague, and my friend for 15 years. To understand how his gruesome murder happened and whether its possible to rebuild the U.S.-Saudi relationship, Ive interviewed more than a dozen knowledgeable American and Saudi sources, who revealed some previously secret details because they hope to establish new rules and accountability that might preserve the relationship. The sources requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the information.

The bottom line is that unless the crown prince takes ownership of this issue and accepts blame for murderous deeds done in his name, his relationship with the United States will remain broken. Saudi officials claim that MBS has made changes, firing Saud al-Qahtani, his former covert-operations coordinator. But the Saudi machine of repression remains intact, run by many of the same people who worked for Qahtani. U.S. officials worry that the young crown prince has become a Saudi version of Saddam Hussein, an authoritarian modernizer.

MBS took a small step toward placating critics Thursday when the kingdom announced it had freed three female human rights activists from prison while they await trial. Ten other women who campaigned for women to drive and on other issues remain in detention.

Prince Khalid bin Salman, a younger brother of the crown prince, former ambassador to Washington and now vice defense minister, discussed Saudi-American relations in an interview in Washington on Thursday. He said he hoped that despite intense criticism in Congress of Saudi Arabia in the wake of Khashoggis murder, the partnership can be repaired: The relationship did not start in one day, and it will not end in one day.

The Saudi official met Thursday with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The Trump administration wants to maintain good relations with the Saudis but faces some strong congressional resistance.

The Saudis have internalized the idea that this will not blow over, says Bernard Haykel, a Princeton professor who knows MBS well. They want to make good with Congress, but they dont know how.



Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman speaks in New Delhi on Feb. 20. (Adnan Abidi/Reuters)

Prince Khalid bin Salman, Saudi vice defense minister, departs the State Department in Washington after a meeting on Thursday. (Cliff Owen/AP)

Dangerous tools

The Khashoggi story is a lesson in how U.S.-supported intelligence and special-operations capabilities can be misused by other countries. Thats the starkest conclusion that emerged from this reporting. Among these previously undisclosed findings:

Some members of the Saudi Rapid Intervention Group that was sent to Istanbul received training in the United States, according to U.S. and Saudi sources. The CIA has cautioned other government agencies that some of this special-operations training might have been conducted by Tier 1 Group, an Arkansas-based company, under a State Department license. The training occurred before the Khashoggi incident, as part of ongoing liaison with the Saudis, and it hasnt been resumed.

A U.S. plan to train and modernize the Saudi intelligence service is also on hold, pending State Department approval of a license. This project was developed by Culpeper National Security Solutions, a unit of DynCorp, with help from some prominent former CIA officials. No work on the project has been done.

One of the Saudi contacts involved in planning the Culpeper training project was Maj. Gen. Ahmed al-Assiri, the Saudi deputy chief of intelligence, who Saudi officials say is under investigation because of his alleged involvement in the Istanbul operation.

Michael Morell, former acting director of the CIA, was publicly identified as Culpepers chairman of the board in 2017, but he no longer holds that position, according to a source familiar with the company. A second source said Morell withdrew from the project within days of Khashoggis murder because of his concern about the direction Saudi Arabia was heading. Morell declined to comment.

Tier 1 Group and DynCorp are both owned by affiliates of Cerberus Capital Management, a privately owned investment group based in New York. The company wouldnt confirm or deny whether any of the 17 perpetrators of the Khashoggi killing who were sanctioned by the Treasury Department had been trained under the Tier 1 contract. But a source close to Cerberus said, We know that this horrendous incident occurred and that companies must emphasize rigorous ethical evaluation policies in light of such an event.

Stephen Feinberg, the co-chief executive of Cerberus, is also chairman of the Presidents Intelligence Advisory Board, which provides independent counsel on intelligence matters. When he was appointed, critics argued there might be conflicts of interest. The source familiar with Cerberuss business activities said that when Feinberg assumed the PIAB post, he divested his interest in all companies in the Cerberus portfolio that were involved in defense and intelligence matters, including Tier 1 Group and DynCorp. The divestment occurred before Khashoggis death and was unrelated, the source close to the company said. A Cerberus spokesman declined a request for comment by Feinberg.

NSO Group, an Israeli-founded company that provides sophisticated tools for hacking mobile phones, has reviewed and modified its relationship with Saudi Arabia, according to a Saudi source. The company, which was recently acquired by a London-based private equity firm called Novalpina Capital LLP, concluded after an internal review that its surveillance technology didnt directly contribute to tracking Khashoggi on his way to his death. But the company has frozen new requests from the kingdom, according to the Saudi source, because of concerns that its technology might have been misused. The company declined to discuss any specific clients and wouldnt confirm or deny this account.

As these corporate examples illustrate, the murder of a Post columnist has affected the contour of the U.S.-Saudi relationship. This partnership has been beneficial for both countries security, and its especially important now, at a time when the Trump administration is challenging Iranian meddling in the region. But many current and former U.S. officials believe that without clearer rules and accountability, the partnership might be unsustainable, given vocal opposition from many members of Congress.

Birth of a strike team

Understanding how the murder in Istanbul happened begins with MBS and Qahtani, his Iago-like adviser. Starting in 2015, when King Salman took the throne and a few months later installed his son Mohammed in the royal succession, Qahtani began using the royal court to suppress dissent. His base of operations was the Center for Studies and Media Affairs, but behind this bland-sounding front, Qahtani began assembling a team drawn from the Saudi intelligence services and military. And he began purchasing surveillance tools from NSO and other vendors.



A Twitter profile photo of Saud al-Qahtani, the Saudi crown princes former former covert-operations coordinator. (Obtained by The Post)

MBSs surveillance dragnet allowed him to spy on other key officials in the kingdom. Starting in late 2015 or early 2016, he obtained permission from Mohammed bin Nayef, then crown prince and interior minister, to conduct lawful intercepts of communications through the royal court, according to U.S. and Saudi sources. The subsequent wiretaps, through various hidden channels, included Mohammed bin Nayef himself, his key intelligence counselor Saad al-Jabri, and the heads of the foreign intelligence and domestic security agencies, according to U.S. and Saudi sources.

Because Qahtani specialized in social media campaigns against critics of MBS, his targets became increasingly tilted toward political dissidents and journalists such as Khashoggi. By 2017, Qahtani had drawn up a list of more than two dozen names, including Khashoggi, of people who might be subject to arrest or detention, according to a Saudi who has seen the list. Only four of the names could be described as serious enemy combatants, the source said.

Qahtani developed special-operations capabilities at the center. Several key operatives later became members of the Rapid Intervention Group sent to Istanbul to kidnap or kill Khashoggi. The biographies of three alleged team members sanctioned by the Treasury Department illustrate how the group came together.

The Istanbul teams alleged leader was Maher Mutreb, a colonel in the Saudi intelligence service and member of a wealthy and respected Saudi family. A Saudi source said he had served in London from 2002 to 2007 as deputy chief of station. He was an early expert in cyberintelligence, and he would sometimes give advice to Saudi friends who worked at the embassy about computer security and how to avoid hackers, a Saudi source said. When Mutreb returned to the kingdom around 2007, the intelligence service regularly sent him abroad, to the United States and elsewhere, for further training.

Mutreb mentioned to Saudi friends that he had gone to several training programs in the United States over the past decade, the Saudi source said.

Mutreb may have been chosen to lead the team because he had been friendly with Khashoggi when they were both living in London and working for then-ambassador Prince Turki al-Faisal. According to a Saudi source who knew Mutreb in London, the intelligence officer would sometimes join Khashoggi and other Saudis working at the London embassy for Friday prayers and then tea afterward in Mayfair.

Mutreb was drawn into Qahtanis circle when he was invited to join the Saudi Federation for Cybersecurity, said the Saudi source, citing contacts inside the royal court. A fluent English speaker, Mutreb traveled with MBS on his trips to the United States in 2017 and 2018. With his intelligence and cyber skills, he was tapped in 2017 as assistant secretary general for security at Qahtanis center, according to U.S. and Saudi sources.

The arc of Mutrebs career, from respected foreign intelligence officer to alleged member of a kidnapping and murder team, illustrates how Saudi intelligence was bent by MBS and Qahtani to their purposes.

Another senior member of the team, also reportedly a colonel in Saudi intelligence, helped direct special activities for Qahtanis center, possibly including the arrest and interrogation of detainees, a U.S. source said. Saudi detainee cases at this time included the female activists and other dissidents. This colonel helped make secret preparations for the November 2017 arrest of about 200 prominent Saudis and their detention at the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Riyadh, the U.S. source added.

A third operative sent to Istanbul was Thaar Ghaleb Alharbi, a lieutenant in the royal guards according to the New York Times and other news reports. He became a favorite of MBS after he fatally shot a Saudi named Mansour al-Amri who tried to storm the gate at Al-Salam Palace in Jiddah in October 2017, according to U.S. and Saudi sources. Alharbi helped in managing detainees and other operations, said a U.S. source familiar with the royal courts activities.

One macabre detail of the interrogations, according to U.S. and Saudi sources, was that detainees were forced to sign nondisclosure agreements pledging that if they talked about their imprisonment and interrogation, they would bear full responsibility for the consequences. A European source described Alharbi as a very close ally of MBS because of his work on sensitive security matters; that might have made him a natural selection for the Istanbul team.

The members of the Istanbul team were the field operatives, not the deciders. These are people who serve their country, and when theyre asked to do something, they do it, said one Saudi official.



A man speaks on the phone outside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 13, 2018. (Petros Giannakouris/AP)

Grisly new details

What happened inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul remains murky, even six months later, because the Saudis havent yet made a full disclosure of the events.

A Saudi source says that the royal court had been tipped off by a security officer stationed at the consulate that Khashoggi would be there on Oct. 2 to complete some paperwork required before his planned marriage to his Turkish fiancee, Hatice Cengiz. The Rapid Intervention Group was assembled. The royal court advised the consulate, via a foreign ministry cable, to cooperate with the team when it arrived.

The best account of Khashoggis murder seems to come via a bug planted in the consulate by Turkish intelligence. A Saudi who has carefully read a transcript of an audio recording of that illegal surveillance described its contents. He said it indicates the team planned to kidnap Khashoggi and bring him back home for detention and interrogation  but that the plan was botched and Khashoggi was killed. His body was then dismembered and disposed of.

The tape transcript, as described by the Saudi source, is chilling. Mutreb tells Khashoggi: Youre coming back with us. Khashoggi protests, No! I have people outside waiting for me, meaning Cengiz. Mutreb insists: Youre coming! Khashoggi screams as he is grabbed, the Saudi source said.

What happened next remains conjecture. The Saudi source says there is a note in the transcript that says Khashoggi was given an injection, which apparently was deduced from the audio. The Saudi source said the shot was probably a powerful sedative, administered by Salah Tubaigy, a medical specialist from the Saudi Interior Ministry who was allegedly part of the team. The Saudis have used sedatives on other captives in previous attempted renditions, the source said.

A bag was then placed over Khashoggis head, and he screamed: I cant breathe. I have asthma. Dont do this. He died soon after  possibly from a sedative overdose, choking or asphyxiation. After his death, the transcript describes a buzzing noise, perhaps from an electric saw as his body is cut into pieces. This grisly task was apparently overseen by Tubaigy, according to the Saudi who read the transcript.

The clearest evidence that the kidnapping, at least, was a premeditated crime is that the Saudi team included a man named Mustafa Almadani. He was a general in Saudi intelligence and older than other members of the Istanbul team, according to passport records. His build was similar to Khashoggis, and he could wear his clothes and impersonate him after the operation was concluded.

After Khashoggis death, a look-alike, probably Almadani, left the consulate by the back door, avoiding Cengiz. His presence strongly suggests that the operation, whatever its purpose, was carefully planned, U.S. and Saudi sources agree.

MBS under pressure

After the initial coverup failed, the Saudi public prosecutor charged 11 people in Khashoggis murder and requested the death penalty for five of them. Qahtani was not one of the 11, according to Saudi and American sources. The Saudis havent disclosed the names of those charged.

Pompeo told MBS last year to take responsibility for the events by closing Qahtanis center and putting him under house arrest, a U.S. official said. But neither happened, initially. I reported in January that Qahtani was continuing to give orders to his former staff members and that he remained in contact with the crown prince.

Qahtanis Center for Studies and Media Affairs has been supplemented by a new Center for Communication and Knowledge Foresight and put under the control of Nasir al-Biqami, who also runs a counterterrorism center at the royal court known as Etidal, according to U.S. and Saudi sources.

But the dissident-monitoring activities of the old center continue, minus the kidnapping and special operations, these sources noted. They said that many of Qahtanis former deputies still target MBSs critics on social media. Holdovers from his old team include the chief of staff, who was Qahtanis former secretary; the head of planning and development, who was formerly chief of special cyber operations; the operations chief, who was former head of cybersecurity; and the chief of analysis and training, who previously was chief of target acquisition in the special-operations wing.

Despite reports that Qahtani is under house arrest, two Saudis told me he is probably still communicating with his former aides. If youre in his position, you would want to make sure you dont lose everything, said one Saudi official who knows Qahtani well. He cited a Saudi proverb:  When a camel falls, it draws more knives than when it was standing. Everyone wants to show that the camel is still standing.



Candles lit by activists protesting the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi are placed outside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 25, 2018. (Lefteris Pitarakis/AP)

A slippery slope

The dilemma for U.S. defense and intelligence contractors is that it will be difficult for them to do new business with Saudi Arabia until MBS takes responsibility for the Khashoggi killing and demonstrates, through specific reforms, that such a crime wont be repeated. Until that occurs, Saudi Arabia will face limits from the State Department and Congress.

U.S. companies that want to sell technology or services to Saudi Arabia or other foreign nations face a complicated, little-known vetting process. This applies both to direct government-to-government deals, known as foreign military sales, and private contracts referred to as direct commercial sales. Both categories are licensed by the State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which is part of the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs. The State Departments decisions are then reviewed by the House and Senate foreign affairs committees.

This licensing pathway was effectively blocked for Saudi Arabia after Khashoggis murder, because of the concerns about the kingdoms respect for human rights. The licensing request by DynCorps Culpeper unit has been halted, for example, according to a source close to the company, even though the kingdoms notoriously disorganized intelligence service badly needs training.

Stagnation of this effort to modernize Saudi intelligence is not good for all of us, one Saudi official told me. That may be true, but Congress isnt likely to approve the training without real signs of reform.

Congress mandates human rights review of weapons sales and training through a legal process known as Leahy vetting, named after its principal sponsor, Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.). Under the law, the State Department must make sure that foreign military units dont commit gross violations of human rights, or GVHRs in bureaucratese, before they receive aid. The State Departments website explains what can trigger a veto: The U.S. government considers torture, extrajudicial killing, enforced disappearance, and rape under color of law as GVHRs when implementing the Leahy law.

The Khashoggi case obviously raises some of these issues. And presumably, before the State Department and Congress approve future sales, they will need new assurances that the Saudi military, foreign intelligence service and domestic security agency have taken real steps to halt their reported human rights abuses. Sen. Leahys staff has made inquiries of the State Department regarding any U.S. training provided to Saudi security personnel who murdered Khashoggi, a Leahy Senate aide told me.

NSO Group, the Israeli-founded surveillance technology company, faces a special problem. It sells foreign governments a system known as Pegasus that can penetrate mobile phones, hack their calls and text messages, manipulate their cameras and microphones, and defeat supposedly secure encryption. The company pledges in letters to human rights groups that it will license this snooping technology only to governments with acceptable human rights records, for legitimate intelligence and law enforcement purposes, such as catching terrorists or drug lords.

But the Citizen Lab, an Internet research organization based in Toronto, has alleged in a series of reports that NSOs phone-hacking tools have been used improperly against political dissidents in Saudi Arabia, Mexico and the United Arab Emirates. An NSO spokesman disputes the Citizen Lab findings and methodology but didnt provide any details. An attorney who represents NSO conceded in an interview in December that obviously, there are sometimes abuses.

Shalev Hulio, an Israeli who is one of NSOs founders, said in an interview with CBS Newss 60 Minutes that was broadcast March 24: I can tell you that in the last eight years that the company exist, we only had real three cases of misuse, three cases . . . and those people or those organization that misuse the system, they are no longer a customer and they will never be a customer again. He didnt specify which customers or countries.

How should a company such as NSO manage its business with Saudi Arabia in the wake of the Khashoggi killing? Company officials wont talk about specific clients. But they describe a vetting process in which a Business Ethics Committee reviews proposed sales, investigates reports of abuses and, where appropriate, recommends changes in policy.

NSO was sold this year by a U.S.-based private-equity fund, Francisco Partners, to the London-based Novalpina Capital.

A source who has talked extensively with Israeli former government officials who have represented NSO told me that after the Khashoggi murder, the company had decided to freeze all future requests from Saudi Arabia. The former Israeli officials had met with Qahtani to sell the technology to the kingdom for what NSO believed were lawful purposes, the source told me. Assiri, the deputy intelligence chief who allegedly helped oversee the Istanbul operation, also had dealings with Israeli surveillance-technology companies, the source said. These connections are now troubling, to say the least.



Maj. Gen. Ahmed al-Assiri, center, the deputy head of Saudi intelligence, walks with then-Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, right, past an honor guard as he arrives to attend a meeting of defense ministers of the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland in July 2016. (Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images)

Novalpinas founder, Stephen Peel, declined to comment about NSOs clients during an interview in New York. He wrote in a March 1 letter to the Citizen Lab and other human rights groups that had criticized NSO that its business-ethics vetting includes assessing the extent of risk that a particular government or agency could misuse NSO technology to target journalists, political opponents or other critics.

The sale of Israeli surveillance technology to a leading Sunni Muslim country illustrates how the growing global market for spy services has become interwoven with foreign policy. Israel has extensive, if unacknowledged, intelligence relationships with Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Jordan and other countries. The Israeli government approves every foreign sale of NSO technology, but the company can suspend licenses if it decides countries or agencies within them are human rights violators.

Israel sees its secret intelligence links with the Gulf states as a breakthrough and potential path to peace. But it can be a slippery slope, when governments license private companies to work with regimes that dont share Western values. These questionable relationships can encourage a dangerous proliferation of intrusive surveillance technologies to nations that spy on their own people.

Backed into a corner

The U.S.-Saudi alliance has endured for about 75 years, surviving severe tests, from the 1973 Arab oil embargo to the role of Saudi al-Qaeda members in the 9/11 attacks. Its surprising, in some ways, that the murder of Khashoggi, a lone journalist, has proved to be an inflection point. Probably its impact resulted from a combination of the brutality of the killing and dismemberment, the ineptness of the initial Saudi coverup, and the fact that the victim was a columnist for one of the worlds most prominent newspapers.

Whatever the reasons, Khashoggi may have accomplished in death what he never achieved in his writing: He has backed MBS into a corner  forcing him either to take responsibility for his actions and address Saudi human rights violations, or risk losing the U.S. military and intelligence support that has been essential for the kingdoms security.

Khashoggi wrote often about his fervent desire for modernization and rule of law in the kingdom. In his last moments, he pleaded that he couldnt breathe, but his murder may yet give oxygen to his demand for reform.

Read more from David Ignatiuss archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook.


Mark Zuckerberg is founder and chief executive of Facebook.

Technology is a major part of our lives, and companies such as Facebook have immense responsibilities. Every day, we make decisions about what speech is harmful, what constitutes political advertising, and how to prevent sophisticated cyberattacks. These are important for keeping our community safe. But if we were starting from scratch, we wouldnt ask companies to make these judgments alone.

I believe we need a more active role for governments and regulators. By updating the rules for the Internet, we can preserve whats best about it  the freedom for people to express themselves and for entrepreneurs to build new things  while also protecting society from broader harms.

From what Ive learned, I believe we need new regulation in four areas: harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.

First, harmful content. Facebook gives everyone a way to use their voice, and that creates real benefits  from sharing experiences to growing movements. As part of this, we have a responsibility to keep people safe on our services. That means deciding what counts as terrorist propaganda, hate speech and more. We continually review our policies with experts, but at our scale well always make mistakes and decisions that people disagree with.

Lawmakers often tell me we have too much power over speech, and frankly I agree. Ive come to believe that we shouldnt make so many important decisions about speech on our own. So were creating an independent body so people can appeal our decisions. Were also working with governments, including French officials, on ensuring the effectiveness of content review systems.

Internet companies should be accountable for enforcing standards on harmful content. Its impossible to remove all harmful content from the Internet, but when people use dozens of different sharing services  all with their own policies and processes  we need a more standardized approach.

One idea is for third-party bodies to set standards governing the distribution of harmful content and to measure companies against those standards. Regulation could set baselines for whats prohibited and require companies to build systems for keeping harmful content to a bare minimum.

Facebook already publishes transparency reports on how effectively were removing harmful content. I believe every major Internet service should do this quarterly, because its just as important as financial reporting. Once we understand the prevalence of harmful content, we can see which companies are improving and where we should set the baselines.

Second, legislation is important for protecting elections. Facebook has already made significant changes around political ads: Advertisers in many countries must verify their identities before purchasing political ads. We built a searchable archive that shows who pays for ads, what other ads they ran and what audiences saw the ads. However, deciding whether an ad is political isnt always straightforward. Our systems would be more effective if regulation created common standards for verifying political actors.

Online political advertising laws primarily focus on candidates and elections, rather than divisive political issues where weve seen more attempted interference. Some laws only apply during elections, although information campaigns are nonstop. And there are also important questions about how political campaigns use data and targeting. We believe legislation should be updated to reflect the reality of the threats and set standards for the whole industry.

Third, effective privacy and data protection needs a globally harmonized framework. People around the world have called for comprehensive privacy regulation in line with the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, and I agree. I believe it would be good for the Internet if more countries adopted regulation such as GDPR as a common framework.

New privacy regulation in the United States and around the world should build on the protections GDPR provides. It should protect your right to choose how your information is used  while enabling companies to use information for safety purposes and to provide services. It shouldnt require data to be stored locally, which would make it more vulnerable to unwarranted access. And it should establish a way to hold companies such as Facebook accountable by imposing sanctions when we make mistakes.

I also believe a common global framework  rather than regulation that varies significantly by country and state  will ensure that the Internet does not get fractured, entrepreneurs can build products that serve everyone, and everyone gets the same protections.

As lawmakers adopt new privacy regulations, I hope they can help answer some of the questions GDPR leaves open. We need clear rules on when information can be used to serve the public interest and how it should apply to new technologies such as artificial intelligence.

Finally, regulation should guarantee the principle of data portability. If you share data with one service, you should be able to move it to another. This gives people choice and enables developers to innovate and compete.

This is important for the Internet  and for creating services people want. Its why we built our development platform. True data portability should look more like the way people use our platform to sign into an app than the existing ways you can download an archive of your information. But this requires clear rules about whos responsible for protecting information when it moves between services.

This also needs common standards, which is why we support a standard data transfer format and the open source Data Transfer Project.

I believe Facebook has a responsibility to help address these issues, and Im looking forward to discussing them with lawmakers around the world. Weve built advanced systems for finding harmful content, stopping election interference and making ads more transparent. But people shouldnt have to rely on individual companies addressing these issues by themselves. We should have a broader debate about what we want as a society and how regulation can help. These four areas are important, but, of course, theres more to discuss.

The rules governing the Internet allowed a generation of entrepreneurs to build services that changed the world and created a lot of value in peoples lives. Its time to update these rules to define clear responsibilities for people, companies and governments going forward.




Visitors approach the Sackler Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York on March 28. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

Hugh Eakin is a 2018-2019 National Endowment for the Humanities public scholar.

A society doctor whose vast wealth was fueled by slave labor in Jamaica persuades the British government to purchase his extraordinary natural history collection. A one-time diplomat and soldier of fortune persuades a group of prominent New Yorkers to buy his dubious trove of Cypriot antiquities  and make him the director of their new public art gallery. A ruthless oil tycoon leaves his billion-dollar fortune to create the richest art institution in the world.

Though they lived in different centuries, Hans Sloane, Luigi Palma di Cesnola and J. Paul Getty had a few things in common. They were founding figures behind three of the worlds most prominent museums  the British Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the J. Paul Getty Trust. And neither their money nor the art they collected was tainted by unsavory associations.

Coming after months of protests, this weeks announcement by the Guggenheim Museum and two British institutions that they are severing ties with the Sackler family and its $13 billion OxyContin-fueled fortune has been presented as an unequivocal stand against dirty money. Indeed, as multiple lawsuits pile up against the Sacklers and Purdue Pharma, the case may seem unusually clear-cut.

But the problem hardly ends with the opioid crisis.

In recent years, museums have faced growing scrutiny over their donors ties to everything from climate-change denial to sexual harassment issues. After the killing of Jamal Khashoggi last fall, museums came under fire for taking money from the Saudi government. And even as the Sackler situation unfolds, New Yorks Whitney Museum is confronting a new round of roiling protests against Warren Kanders, the tear-gas billionaire who is its vice chair. (In a statement, Kanders has vigorously denied allegations of complicity with U.S. decisions to use tear gas against migrants at the southern border.)

It is tempting to treat these as isolated cases that just happen to be breaking at the same time. They are not. For many of the worlds most distinguished museums  from the Mauritshuis in the Netherlands to the Frick Collection in New York  have tainted money in their DNA. And in the United States especially, theres a long history of courting the super-rich to keep the donations flowing.

Not that museums are particularly corrupt places. To the contrary, attendance alone  67 million people visited U.S. museums in 2017  shows how vital they are to our cultural life.

But museums have always been exceptionally good places to convert roughly obtained private wealth into social prestige. And in the United States, where there is minuscule public funding and museums with ever-growing ambitions, that process has become an essential part of the cultural landscape.

Currently, government support has dwindled to about 3 percent of the estimated $5 billion spent on the arts every year.

Nor does the general public contribute much. Despite ever-rising ticket prices, most museums lose money on visitors. According to a 2018 survey by the Association of Art Museum Directors, the largest museums spend an average of $63 per visitor, while receiving only $13 in revenue.

At the same time, museums have been virtually priced out of the art market. They depend on gifts from top collectors, which account for three-quarters of todays acquisitions.

Faced with these pressures  and the relentless drive to expand  museums have spent decades coming up with new ways to woo billionaires, including tax breaks, naming rights and the special cachet that a $10-million board seat commands.

When New Yorks Museum of Modern Art needed to raise more money in the wake of the 2008 recession, it simply added seats to its coveted board.

Now, having given so much power to the ultra-wealthy, we are dismayed that their money sometimes comes from dubious sources. Until now, protesters have focused on a few high-profile cases. Clearly, no museum should take money from blatant lawbreakers or those who profit from causing others pain.

But what happens when we decide to take on, say, big real estate? Many museum boards include real estate executives who wield outsize political influence, and they may not have the interests of ordinary citizens in mind.

One option is divestment. Last summer, the Netherlands Van Gogh Museum and Mauritshuis dropped long-running sponsorship deals with Shell following protests about the companys environmental record. But both museums receive substantial support from a national culture lottery fund.

Other countries are not so lucky. In Britain, officials told the Guardian this week that government cuts in the public Art Fund will require more, not less, reliance on wealthy corporations and private donors.

Nowhere is this more true than in the United States, where companies such as Pfizer (whose products include Naloxone, the antidote to an opioid overdose) and ExxonMobil are among the most generous charitable givers in the corporate sector.

In extreme cases, such as the Sacklers, lines will have to be drawn. But we cannot erase history. For better or worse, our greatest museums are built on the backs of billionaires. Museums should be forthright about this reality, and much more transparency is needed. But they should not be afraid of it.

Unless we are prepared to embrace large-scale public arts funding  or dramatically scale back our cultural ambitions  there are few alternatives.

Read more:

Robert Gebelhoff: The opioid crisis is too big for justice to stop with the Sackler family

Charles Lane: Heres one billionaire who really might be a policy failure

Alyssa Rosenberg: Targeting the arts is the laziest, stupidest way to pretend to cut the budget


Patti Davis is the author of the new novel The Wrong Side of Night and is the daughter of Ronald and Nancy Reagan.

Sad anniversaries collapse time. No matter how many years have passed, when the day arrives you are back there again. You remember the slant of the sun, how time seemed to lumber and stall; you remember smells and images and voices telling you things you never wanted to hear.

Theres been a shooting, one of my Secret Service agents said. His face seemed drained of blood.

He had burst into my therapy appointment. When he opened the door, my first reaction was anger  how could he just intrude on a session like that? But then I saw his face and heard words I would never forget.

At first, we thought that Jim Brady had been killed  everyone did. Slowly, over what seemed like hours but probably wasnt, the news became consistent and mostly accurate: My father was in surgery, Brady and two other men had also been wounded; Brady had been shot in the head.

The Secret Service wouldnt allow any family members to get on a commercial flight; they had to assume the worst, that maybe all of us were targets, maybe John W. Hinckley Jr. wasnt acting alone. At the end of the day, Michael, Maureen and I boarded an Air Force transport plane and got to Washington long after midnight. Ron was flown in from somewhere in the Midwest. We still didnt know whether our father would live.

I remember that flight as though it happened last week  the noise of the plane, the uniformed soldiers, the white-bread sandwiches they gave us though no one was very hungry. And the fear  it rode along with us as we flew across the country into night.

Shock is a strange thing  it crystallizes some memories and blurs others. I can still see my mother sitting up in bed clutching a shirt of my fathers  shed held onto it all night, breathing in his scent. I dont remember the drive to the hospital, but I remember coming into the room and seeing my father. His face was so pale it was almost translucent, and I had the sudden feeling that he might have died and come back.

There is a broader memory that has stayed with me through all these decades. It settled into me, like water finding its own level. Its the memory of how this country felt in the days and weeks after my father was shot. Politics suddenly became incidental, almost irrelevant. The president and three other men had been brutally gunned down. People were stunned, grieving, softened by sadness. Strangers opened their arms to me, and I gratefully accepted their embraces. I felt it everywhere  people bonded by sympathy and compassion, by a feeling that an attempted assassination inflicted a wound on the entire country. There was no room for divisiveness, for the hard-drawn lines of political differences.

I touch the edges of that memory now and a deeper grief is ushered in. Because I dont know whether we will ever experience that shared sympathy again in the United States. The lines have cut too deep, the distances are too great, and cruelty has become mainstream. We have put down roots in soil that doesnt nourish us, but rather poisons us. And I dont know whether any event or tragedy will compel us to replant ourselves in healthier soil.

But it is worth remembering that, for a while, a long time ago, thats who we were. Maybe just for a few weeks or months, but we knew how to get there. Somewhere in us there is a cellular memory of being a people who turn away from vicious name-calling, who dismiss political differences and who simply care about one another.

The poet Rumi wrote: Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing, there is a field. Ill meet you there. On the horrible day that my father and three other men were shot, we as a country found that field and went there to heal. My hope is that we never face another assassination attempt. But my hope is also that we learn to believe that field is still there, and that we choose to find it.


Craig Unger is the author of "House of Trump, House of Putin" and a former contributing editor of Vanity Fair.

Collusion or not, President Trump and the Russians are thick as thieves.

What I mean is that for more than three decades, at least 13 people with known or alleged links to the Russian Mafia held the deeds to, lived in or ran criminal operations out of Trump Tower in New York or other Trump properties. I mean that many of them used Trump-branded real estate to launder vast amounts of money by buying multimillion-dollar condos through anonymous shell companies. I mean that the Bayrock Group, a real estate development company that was based in Trump Tower and had ties to the Kremlin, came up with a new business model to franchise Trump condos after he lost billions of dollars in his Atlantic City casino developments, and helped make him rich again.

Yet Trumps relationship with the Russian underworld, a de facto state actor, has barely surfaced in the uproar surrounding Russias interference in the 2016 campaign. That oversight may be explained in part by journalist Michael Kinsleys long-held maxim: The real scandal isnt whats illegal; its what is legal.

Robert S. Mueller III, of course, is a prosecutor. His job as special counsel, now complete, was to decide whether to indict. But what if some of the most egregious and corrupt offenses are not illegal? Russian President Vladimir Putin has long insisted that American democracy itself is corrupt. Under his aegis, the Russians have methodically studied various components of the American body politic  campaign finance, our legal system, social media and perhaps especially the real estate industry  and exploited every loophole they could find.

As Oleg Kalugin, a former head of counterintelligence for the KGB, told me in an interview for my book House of Trump, House of Putin: The Untold Story of Donald Trump and the Russian Mafia, the Mafia amounts to one of the branches of the Russian government today. Where Americans cracked down on the Italian American Mafia, Putin dealt with the Russian mob very differently. He co-opted it. He made it an integral part of his Mafia state. Russian gangsters became, in effect, Putins enforcers. They had long and deep relationships. According to a tape recording made by former Russian agent Alexander Litvinenko a year before he was fatally poisoned in London, Putin had close ties to Semion Mogilevich, a top mobster, that dated to the early 1990s.

That criminals with ties to Russia bought Trump condos, partnered with Trump and were based at Trump Tower  his home, his place of work, the crown jewel of his empire  should be deeply concerning. Its not hard to conclude that, as a result, the president, wittingly or not, has long been compromised by a hostile foreign power, even if Mueller did not conclude that Trump colluded or conspired with the Russians.

[One person the Mueller report didnt exonerate? Vladimir Putin.]

Lets go back to 1984, when David Bogatin, an alleged Russian gangster who arrived in the United States a few years earlier with $3 in his pocket, sat down with Trump and bought not one but five condos, for a total of $6 million  about $15 million in todays dollars. What was most striking about the transaction was that at the time, according to David Cay Johnstons The Making of Donald Trump, Trump Tower was one of only two major buildings in New York City that sold condos to buyers who used shell companies that allowed them to purchase real estate while concealing their identities. Thus, according to the New York state attorney generals office, when Trump closed the deal with Bogatin, whether he knew it or not, he had just helped launder money for the Russian Mafia.

And so began a 35-year relationship between Trump and Russian organized crime. Mind you, this was a period during which the disintegration of the Soviet Union had opened a fire-hose-like torrent of hundreds of billions of dollars in flight capital from oligarchs, wealthy apparatchiks and mobsters in Russia and its satellites. And who better to launder so much money for the Russians than Trump  selling them multimillion-dollar condos at top dollar, with little or no apparent scrutiny of who was buying them.

Over the next three decades, dozens of lawyers, accountants, real estate agents, mortgage brokers and other white-collar professionals came together to facilitate such transactions on a massive scale. According to a BuzzFeed investigation, more than 1,300 condos, one-fifth of all Trump-branded condos sold in the United States since the 1980s, were shifted in secretive, all-cash transactions that enable buyers to avoid legal scrutiny by shielding their finances and identities.

The Trump Organization has dismissed money laundering charges as unsubstantiated, and because it is so difficult to penetrate the shell companies that purchased these condos, it is almost impossible for reporters  or, for that matter, anyone without subpoena power  to determine how much money laundering by Russians went through Trump-branded properties. But Anders Aslund, a Swedish economist, put it this way to me: Early on, Trump came to the conclusion that it is better to do business with crooks than with honest people. Crooks have two big advantages. First, theyre prepared to pay more money than honest people. And second, they will always lose if you sue them because they are known to be crooks.

After Trump World Tower opened in 2001, Trump began looking for buyers in Russia through Sothebys International Realty, which teamed up with a Russian real estate outfit. I had contacts in Moscow looking to invest in the United States, real estate broker Dolly Lenz told USA Today. They all wanted to meet Donald. In the end, she said, she sold 65 units to Russians in Trump World Tower alone.

The condo sales were just a part of it. In 2002, after Trump had racked up $4 billion in debt from his disastrous ventures in Atlantic City, the Russians again came to his rescue, by way of the Bayrock Group. At a time when Trump found it almost impossible to get loans from Western banks, Bayrock offered him enormous fees  18 to 25 percent of the profits  simply to use his name on its developments.

[Putin wanted to interrogate me. Trump called it an incredible offer. Why?]

So how did all this go unchallenged? According to Jonathan Winer, who served as deputy assistant secretary of state for international law enforcement in the Clinton administration, one answer may be lax regulations. If you are doing a transaction with no mortgage, there is no financial institution that needs to know where the money came from, particularly if its a wire transfer from overseas, Winer told me in an interview for my book. The customer obligations that are imposed on all kinds of financial institutions are not imposed on people selling real estate. They should have been, but they werent.

And without such regulations, prosecutors hands are tied.

All of which made it easier for the Russian Mafia to expand throughout the United States. As it did so, it grew closer to Trump. Even though Mogilevich had no known direct contacts with Trump, several of his associates did. Among them was Bogatin, who took part in a massive gasoline tax scam, and whose brother, Jacob (Yacov) Bogatin, was indicted with Mogilevich in 2003 on 45 felony counts of stock fraud. (Because there is no extradition treaty between the United States and Russia, they were never brought to trial in the United States.)

Another Mogilevich associate in Trumps orbit was the late Vyacheslav Ivankov, a ruthless extortionist who became renowned as one of the most brutal killers in the annals of Russian crime. Mogilevich had sent him to New York in 1992 with a mandate to consolidate the Russian Mafia in the United States and to form alliances with the Cosa Nostra and other Mafias. Once he arrived, Ivankov became a regular at the Trump Taj Mahal in Atlantic City, and was widely thought to be based in the Brighton Beach area of Brooklyn, where many Russian mobsters lived. But when the FBI came looking for him, it discovered that the head of the Russian Mafia in New York owned a luxury condo in the glitziest part of Manhattan  at 721 Fifth Avenue, in fact  Trump Tower. There is no evidence of personal interaction between Trump and Ivankov.

Yet another Mogilevich associate with ties to Trump was Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, better known as Taiwanchik, whose relationship with Mogilevich dates back more than three decades. Indicted in 2002 for bribing Olympic figure skating judges, Tokhtakhounov was awarded the No. 5 position on the FBIs Most Wanted List, two slots behind Mogilevich. In April 2013, two gambling rings that he allegedly ran were busted by the FBI on the 63rd floor of Trump Tower, resulting in the indictments of 34 members and associates of Russian organized crime. Among them was Tokhtakhounov, who fled the country to avoid prosecution, and appeared later that year at Trumps 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow.

[Signs of Trump-Putin collaboration, starting years before the campaign?]

These were just some of the Russian mobsters who gravitated toward Trump as they laundered money and cultivated politicians. Over time, they learned how to work the system. They paid large sums for the most powerful legal talent in the land  enough, at times, to woo the very men who had once been charged with pursuing them. In 1997, former FBI director William Sessions traveled to Moscow and alerted the world to the horrifying dangers of the brutal Russian Mafia. But 10 years later, he took on as a client the Ukrainian-born Mogilevich. At the time, the U.S. Department of Justice was investigating racketeering charges against Mogilevich over questionable energy deals between Russia and Ukraine. Sessionss successor as FBI director, Louis Freeh, also later represented Russian clients. All perfectly legal. In Freehs case, the client was Denis Katsyvs Cyprus-based Prevezon Holdings. Freeh helped Prevezon settle a money laundering probe by the U.S. government after the company was accused of laundering more than $200 million in a Russian tax fraud scheme in which an American hedge fund manager and his firm, Hermitage Capital, were said to have been framed by the Russians. The ensuing scandal culminated in the death of Sergei Magnitsky, Hermitages accountant, and led to the passage of the Magnitsky Act, which sanctioned high-level Russian officials. Natalia Veselnitskaya, Prevezons defense lawyer, attended the much-discussed June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower with Trumps eldest son, Donald Trump Jr.; Trumps son-in-law, Jared Kushner; and Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort.

Manafort has been convicted of bank fraud, tax fraud and failure to comply with the Foreign Agents Registration Act by not reporting foreign income.

The special counsels report has not yet been released, only Attorney General William P. Barrs summary with its finding of no collusion. But its clear that it was profoundly naive to think that a prosecutor would save the day and cure our diseased democracy of all that ails it. Thats because the problem behind this assault on the nations sovereignty far transcends the criminal arena. Im no fan of Putins, but he was right about one thing: Swaths of American society are corrupt. If we want to protect our most precious institutions, we should examine new regulations in a wide range of sectors. The House Intelligence Committee, the House Oversight Committee and the House Judiciary Committee have geared up for hearings and investigations. They had better move fast. We have a president who has a long, tangled history with figures connected to Russian organized crime  all of it, apparently, perfectly legal.

Twitter: @craigunger

Read more from Outlook:

Trump borrows his rhetoric  and his view of power  from the mob

House of Cards is credible. Just ask the Russians, Chinese and Iranians.

Russian trolls can be surprisingly subtle, and often fun to read

Follow our updates on Facebook and Twitter.




President Trump at a rally with supporters in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. (Scott Olson/Getty Images)

Opinion writer

Fresh off his non-exoneration from special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, the president of the United States took his tired, stale and pathetic act of grievance to Michigan. And, once again, he railed against elites, boasted about his intelligence and flaunted his wealth.

Theyre the elite. Im not. Well, I have a better education than them, said Trump, sounding like every insecure wanna-be know-it-all Ive ever met at any age. Im smarter than them. I went to the best schools. They didnt. Much more beautiful house. Much more beautiful apartment. Much more beautiful everything. Trumps tirade in Grand Rapids was almost the exact same thing he said in Duluth, Minn., in June 2018. That sound you hear is me in extended yawn.

Thats not to say there wasnt new material. After all, whats a bully if not a bestower of belittling nicknames for those perceived to be weak. The latest recipient of one of Trumps sophomoric sobriquets is Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-Calif.), the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.

Little pencil-necked Adam Schiff. Hes got the smallest, thinnest neck Ive ever seen, Trump told his braying supporters on Thursday. He is not a long-ball hitter, but I saw him today, Well, we dont really know, there still could have been some Russia collusion. The president went on to say, Sick, sick. These are sick people and there has to be accountability because it is all lies and they know its lies.

[Democrats, evicting Trump in 2020 should be goal No. 1.]

Hours earlier on Capitol Hill, sycophantic Republicans members of the Intelligence Committee also tried to use Attorney General William P. Barrs glass-half-empty summary of the not-yet-released 300-page-plus Mueller report as a hammer as they called on Schiff to step down as committee chairman.

Schiff was having none of it. His five-minute response was blistering, with a recurring phrase said so often that it served as spikes on the road to redemption that the Republicans thought they were cruising down. Each time Schiff said, You might think its okay, he hit them and the president with specific facts that might not meet the high standard for criminal conspiracy, but they are certainly objectionable on moral, ethical and patriotic grounds.

My colleagues might think its okay that the Russians offered dirt on the Democratic candidate for president as part of whats described as the Russian governments effort to help the Trump campaign. You might think thats okay. My colleagues might think its okay that when that was offered to the son of the president, who had a pivotal role in the campaign, that the presidents son did not call the FBI; he did not adamantly refuse that foreign help  no, instead that son said that he would love the help with the Russians. You might think its okay that he took that meeting. You might think its okay that Paul Manafort, the campaign chair, someone with great experience running campaigns, also took that meeting. You might think its okay that the presidents son-in-law also took that meeting. You might think its okay that they concealed it from the public. You might think its okay that their only disappointment after that meeting was that the dirt they received on Hillary Clinton wasnt better. You might think thats okay. You might think its okay that when it was discovered, a year later, that they then lied about that meeting and said that it was about adoptions. You might think that its okay that it was reported that the president helped dictate that lie. You might think thats okay. I dont. You might think its okay that the campaign chairman of a presidential campaign would offer information about that campaign to a Russian oligarch in exchange for money or debt forgiveness. You might think thats okay, I dont. You might think its okay that that campaign chairman offered polling data to someone linked to Russian intelligence. I dont think thats okay. You might think its okay that the president himself called on Russia to hack his opponents emails, if they were listening. You might think its okay that later that day, in fact, the Russians attempted to hack a server affiliated with that campaign. I dont think thats okay. You might think its okay that the presidents son-in-law sought to establish a secret back channel of communication with the Russians through a Russian diplomatic facility. I dont think thats okay. You might think its okay that an associate of the president made direct contact with the GRU through Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks, that is considered a hostile intelligence agency. You might think its okay that a senior campaign official was instructed to reach that associate and find out what that hostile intelligence agency had to say in terms of dirt on his opponent. You might think its okay that the national security adviser designate secretly conferred with the Russian ambassador about undermining U.S. sanctions, and you might think its okay that he lied about it to the FBI. You might say thats all okay, thats just what you need to do to win. But I dont think its okay. I dont think its okay. I think its immoral, I think its unethical, I think its unpatriotic and, yes, I think its corrupt  and evidence of collusion.

Talk about a speaking indictment. Bravo to Schiff for keeping the focus where it belongs. Shame on the president and his followers (there is no Republican Party anymore, is there?) for thinking any of this is okay  or that weve forgotten whats at stake.

Follow Jonathan on Twitter: @Capehartj. Subscribe to Cape Up, Jonathan Capeharts weekly podcast

Read more:

Max Boot: The speech Trump should have given after the Mueller report dropped

Henry Olsen: If Democrats want to protect the rule of law, they cant rush the Mueller report

Marc A. Thiessen: The Trump-Russia collusion hall of shame

Michael Gerson: Trump may not be a Russian agent. Hes just a Russian stooge.


Former congressman Beto ORourke officially kicked off his presidential campaign Saturday with a plea for unity and compassion for Americans struggling to better themselves and migrants seeking relief at the Mexican border just blocks away from where he stood.

Whatever our differences  where you live, who you love, to whom you pray, for whom you voted in the last election  let those differences not define us or divide us at this moment, he told several thousand supporters who gathered in his hometowns historic downtown for the first of three kickoff rallies in Texas on Saturday. Before we are anything else, we are Americans first.

ORourke was critical of President Trump, who he cast as using fear and division to corral political support, but most of his address appealed to positive American virtues.

We will not allow ourselves to be defined by our fears or our differences, he said, but rather our aspirations, our ambitions.

ORourke stood just a few blocks away from the Paso del Norte International Bridge, under which Border Patrol agents have detained hundreds of migrants, including families with young children, in a temporary tent encampment because a dramatic influx of asylum seekers has filled the processing facilities.

In a tweet Thursday, ORourke called these conditions unacceptable and not how we should be treating our fellow human beings. He visited the site on Friday, promising to continue pushing for answers so we can put an end to this.

He referred to those migrants again on Saturday, calling for aid to Central American countries to stem the flow of needy people, for protections for dreamers brought to this country as young children and for a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented people already here.

He scorned the presidents border crackdown  particularly its impact on women and children.

Lets make sure we never take another child from another mother at their most desperate moment, said ORourke, who during his speech spoke for several minutes in Spanish.

Referring specifically to those kept behind fences under the bridge, he added: They are our fellow human beings and deserve to be treated like our fellow human beings.

In his two weeks as a candidate, voters across the country have repeatedly asked ORourke what sets him apart in a crowded Democratic field. He usually tells of living in this vibrant border town, where more than 80 percent of residents are Hispanic, Spanish is widely spoken, and people and goods freely and peacefully travel back-and-forth across international bridges.

At a time when President Trump has declared security at the border one of the biggest challenges facing America and has made the fight for a border wall a centerpiece of his presidency, ORourke offers a vastly different view of the border and of the migrants trying to cross it.

If Trumps messaging is a frantic, fearful scream, then ORourkes is an emotion-heavy, soothing assurance that things arent really like that.

In addition to the crowd in El Paso, thousands more ORourke supporters scattered across the country watched his remarks at parties held in the living rooms of numerous homes and apartments, a college lecture hall in South Carolina, a community college in Nebraska, a library in the Kansas City suburbs, a musical instrument store in Oklahoma City, a McDonalds in another Texas border town, a Panera in San Diego, a hair salon in Tennessee, a rooftop in Brooklyn and a bar in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The campaign proudly boasted that supporters had organized watch parties in all 50 states, including one gathering in North Dakota and two in Hawaii.

ORourke has said that he wants to run the largest grass roots campaign this country has ever seen, and he has turned away donations from political action committees.

Just as he did during an unsuccessful run for Senate in Texas last year, ORourke has been driving himself around the country and attending dozens of campaign events in small, intimate spaces like coffeehouses and taquerias where voters can shake his hand, ask him a question and listen to his calls for unity. Although ORourke has been greeted by large, enthusiastic crowds at each stop, his small campaign staff has continued to book mostly small venues, forcing the candidate to jump on top of countertops and vehicles to be seen and heard.

Many of these stops are broadcast on Facebook, and ORourke has also posted video messages filmed on the front porch of his El Paso home with his wife, Amy Sanders ORourke, who introduced him Saturday, and the family dog, Artemis.

Despite the splash he made in the campaigns first weeks, ORourke has pitched himself as an underdog. His campaign wrote in a fundraising appeal to supporters on Friday that Beto is playing catch up to other candidates with more campaign funds. Some of our opponents started with millions of dollars from past campaigns. It did not note that in the first 24 hours of his campaign, ORourke hauled in $6.1 million, the most reported in that period for any candidate.

The donations underscored that, in many ways, he is far from the underdog. Oprah Winfrey interviewed him in February, Vanity Fair featured him on the April cover and, in May, HBO will air a documentary about his unsuccessful Senate race against Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) last year  all while presidential candidates who have actually won Senate races have attracted far less attention. Even Artemis, who often looks forlorn in photos, has become an Internet sensation and the subject of several parody Twitter accounts.

ORourke built a national following during his Senate race, but now that he faces fellow Democrats, his voting record in Congress and policy stances  or, sometimes, lack of them  have come under heightened scrutiny.

His ideological positioning across the sprawling field of candidates for the Democratic nomination is still somewhat uncertain. Several candidates, including Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), are seen as more liberal than ORourke, while Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) has focused on such issues as infrastructure that could appeal to more moderate or conservative voters.

While the ORourke favored a do-it-himself approach in his Senate candidacy and in the early days of the presidential effort, he has moved recently to professionalize the campaign. In picking a campaign manager, ORourke passed over those who worked on his Texas races and hired Jen OMalley Dillon, a veteran organizer and data expert who was the deputy campaign manager for former president Barack Obamas reelection campaign.

But ORourke wants the campaign to maintain the look and feel of a scrappy effort fueled by grass roots activists  which is why he formally kicked it off Saturday not in a stadium or arena, like those Trump books for his rallies, but in the streets of El Paso. Later rallies were scheduled for Houston and Austin.


Democratic presidential candidate and former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke speaks from the roof of his car to an overflow crowd at a campaign stop at a coffee shop on March 24 in Las Vegas. (John Locher/AP)

No one in the field of Democratic presidential candidates has been the subject of more hype  and, recently, more skepticism  than Beto ORourke. To go from a losing Senate campaign in Texas to a run for the White House is hardly a normal path in politics. ORourke, who formally launched his campaign on Saturday, is about to show what hes learned from that experience.

Its indisputable that he was a political phenomenon during his Senate run last year. Maybe it was due to his spirited defense in a viral video of quarterback Colin Kaepernick taking a knee during the national anthem to protest police violence in black communities. Maybe it was his aptitude with Facebook Live. Maybe it was the image of ORourke driving on the open road, at once seemingly aimless and totally focused. Whatever it was, it almost worked.

But almost worked is the issue. ORourke lost the race to incumbent Republican Sen. Ted Cruz by fewer than three percentage points. How should he read what happened? Should he say, Hey, its deep-red Texas, I did everything I could, and though I lost, I did better than any Democrat running statewide in many years? Or should he say, I might have been able to win this race if I had been savvier, smarter, tougher. Where did I fall short personally?

Several things suggest that ORourke isnt laying his defeat just on forces beyond his control. As he explored the question of whether to run for president, ORourke sought advice from a range of Democrats with presidential campaign experience. Those who have talked directly with the candidate (or with advisers close to him) have come away persuaded that ORourke believes he could have won  or done better than he did  had he done some things differently.

He did many things right, which was one reason he came as close as he did. He displayed energy and skills as a candidate that have impressed even his rivals. His aspirational message captured imaginations among voters weary of the constant partisan warfare. He showed that he understands not just the power of social media but how to exploit it effectively. He showed that being unconventional can pay dividends.

He also seemed to revel in projecting just how unusual his style of campaigning could be. In a Vanity Fair profile, ORourke described the feeling he had at an early event in that Senate race. I got in there, and I dont know if its a speech or not, but it felt amazing, he told Joe Hagan, who wrote the profile. Because every word was pulled out of me. Like, by some greater force, which was just the people there. Everything that I said, I was, like, watching myself, being like, How am I saying this stuff? Where is this coming from? 

That might appeal to some politicians, but presidential campaigns are not romantic explorations of self. They are hardheaded enterprises: long, complex, massive and expensive. For the Democratic Partys nominee, this will become a billion-dollar enterprise, created from scratch and on the fly. There is room for spontaneity, innovation and creativity  but within a disciplined, orderly structure.

Democrats who spoke with members of ORourkes team over the past few months said they found, between conversations late last year and more recently, a noticeable difference in his thinking. One Democratic strategist said that, in an early conversation, he got the sense that ORourke and his team were trying to decide whether they could run a presidential campaign largely as an extension of the Senate campaign.

By spring, such thoughts seemed to have disappeared. Something happened, said this Democrat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to share what he had learned. Beto kind of forced the idea that [we] cant do things the same way we did the last time.

Another Democrat said: Hes clear that this is at a totally different scale: the size and scope and intricacies. For him to be successful, he has to be the best candidate he can be, which means the most professional team around him.

The clearest indicator of the change in thinking was ORourkes decision to recruit and hire Jen OMalley Dillon, who was deputy campaign manager for Barack Obama in 2012, as his new campaign manager. OMalley Dillon, who is widely respected across the party, had not planned to work for a candidate during the nomination battle. ORourke managed to change her mind.



Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke gets back into a minivan following a meet-and-greet at Tuckerman Brewing on March 20 in Conway, N.H. (Scott Eisen/Getty Images)

To me, Jen is the biggest get of the cycle, said Guy Cecil, chairman of Priorities USA, a Democratic super PAC. If I were running for president, I would be doing everything humanly possible to get Jen to work for me. Its an acknowledgment that to be successful there is an inside and outside game to play.

In reaching out to OMalley Dillon, ORourke has found someone who can put a foundation beneath the candidacy. She has knowledge gained from experience in multiple presidential campaigns and, because she came up through the organizing side of politics rather than the messaging side, she brings to ORourke elements that were missing in his Senate race.

She is steeped in the intricacies of voter contact and mobilization, comfortable with digital and data analytics that are part of modern campaigns. She is also tough-minded in the ways that the manager of such an operation must be and known for her ability to make decisions. There is nobody better at the blocking and tackling of politics, and thats what he needs, said David Axelrod, who worked with her in both of the Obama presidential campaigns.

Beyond the structures that must be built, other questions exist. Can he fill out the message that he carried throughout the Texas campaign? One Democrat who sees ORourke as a talented but incomplete candidate described that message as Obama lite, aspirational but insufficient in terms of policy heft to carry into a presidential campaign. Another is whether he is prepared for the hard knocks of a national campaign and ready to fight back against opponents, especially President Trump, should he become the nominee.

ORourke and OMalley Dillon face similar challenges: Each must let the other thrive and do the best work possible. That means ORourke needs to give his campaign manager wide berth to build and run the operation, and she must not impose on the candidate strictures or changes that would take away from his natural talents.

Ultimately, campaigns are reflections of the candidates, not the staffs. Which puts the real onus onto ORourke. As my colleague Matt Viser so aptly put it: Is the candidate who found near-success driving himself now prepared, figuratively and literally, to give up the keys to the car?


A news report that Pope Francis is appointing Atlanta Archbishop Wilton Gregory to replace embattled D.C. Cardinal Donald Wuerl has become engulfed by rumors and conspiracy theories. (Andrew Medichini/AP)

When the pope names a new bishop for a diocese, its always buzzy Catholic news. But a leaked report this week about the next archbishop of Washington was big news for unexpected reasons.

The Catholic News Agency, citing anonymous sources, reported Thursday that Pope Francis is going to appoint Atlanta Archbishop Wilton Gregory to replace embattled D.C. Cardinal Donald Wuerl  which would make Gregory the first black Catholic archbishop of the capital, one of the most high-profile posts in the nation. Then the news was quickly eclipsed by questions, doubts and conspiracy theories about the sources behind it.

Had Gregory really been offered the job  or was someone allied with the pope floating a trial balloon to gauge sentiment in the District, an epicenter of the current clergy sexual abuse crisis?

Or could the report, in a conservative-leaning publication, have been leaked purposely by Francis critics in the Vatican or elsewhere to hurt and possibly scuttle the pick of Gregory, loathed by some orthodox Catholics as too liberal?

Another theory is the leaks came as a push to make Gregory, who is seen as happy and mostly popular in Atlanta, feel more obligated to accept the popes offer if it was made public.

The Catholic News Agency hedged, saying the likely appointment could still be subject to change.

The Vatican and church officials in Washington and Atlanta declined to verify the report, leading some to speculate that it was untrue, Gregory could be considering turning it down or the pope could change his mind. As of Saturday, no other Catholic media or mainstream outlet, including The Washington Post, had confirmed CNAs reporting, although the far-right website Church Militant was quick to cite the CNA report.

Names of new bishops sometimes leak a day before the appointment, but experts said they couldnt recall the name of someone who had been offered the job getting out a week or more in advance. The CNA report said the appointment could come as early as next week.

CNAs editor-in-chief, J.D. Flynn, who is also one of the authors of the piece, stood behind the article. I dont have any doubt about the veracity of what we reported, he said.

The reaction Friday illustrated the intense political polarization in the Catholic Church, as well as the very high stakes many say Francis perceives in filling the vacancy created when Wuerl resigned in October  an extremely long vacancy by church standards.

Even without the abuse stuff, this would be important because of the political situation, the polarization, the fraught state of the country, said Rocco Palmo, author of the popular Catholic news site Whispers in the Loggia. Whomever is in D.C. will set an important tone for the church politically on issues of priority  be it abortion, immigration, whatever. This appointment is too big to fail. This is the most significant thing Francis will do in the United States during his papacy.

Rich Raho, a campus minister from St. Patrick High School in Chicago who tweets church news to thousands of followers, warned Thursday that someone who wants to hurt the Gregory appointment could be the one who leaked it.

Floating potential episcopal appointments well ahead of an actual announcement while quoting anonymous sources is risky, to say the least, tweeted Raho. Francis is a pope of surprises and could change his mind at any moment. Caution, folks!

In an interview with The Post, Raho pointed to fired-up readers commenting against Gregory on some right-leaning sites. If theyre trying to achieve a purpose, its working.

The D.C. archdiocese, which includes the District and Maryland suburbs, is a prosperous, healthy part of the Catholic Church and has been rocked since summer, when its last archbishop  Theodore McCarrick  was suspended for alleged child sexual abuse. Then Wuerl was forced to retire early after the release of a bombshell grand jury report out of Pennsylvania about clergy mishandling and coverup of abusive priests. Wuerl was criticized for allegedly mishandling several abuse cases in his role as bishop of Pittsburgh.

Many Catholics were upset in January when Wuerl admitted amid questioning from The Post that he knew of complaints about McCarrick years ago and had reported them to the Vatican, despite denying having any knowledge of the scandal since it surfaced.

Even fans of Wuerl recognize the archdiocese is hurting and needs a new and healing leader who will offer no surprises.

Under the tenures of Francis and President Trump, Catholics have become bitterly divided about almost everything, and the crisis has served to further that political polarization.

With Washington at the epicenter of the crisis, Franciss pick for the seat will likely be seen as a statement on the scandal engulfing the global church. Francis is seen by many survivors as uneven on the topic.

Conservatives immediately responded on social media to CNA with criticism about a possible pick of Gregory, who is associated with moderate bishops who have largely sidestepped the culture war.

This is a bad move. Gregory is 100% McCarrick/Wuerl Apologist Company Man .... sigh.... more of the same, wrote one reader on Twitter.

MCCARRICK CRONY RUMORED TO REPLACE WUERL IN WASHINGTON DC, was the headline of Church Militant.

Gregory, the site noted, was a protege of the late Chicago cardinal Joseph Bernardin, a lead promoter of the seamless garment philosophy that saw poverty, joblessness and other social justice issues as weighty as abortion, the site said in a sharply critical way.

A group of conservative Catholics in the archdiocese Friday put out a statement appealing for Gregory not to be picked.

Cardinal Bernardin left a legacy of dilution of Catholic teaching and subversion of the fight to protect unborn babies and their mothers, wrote the Catholic Laity for Orthodox Bishops and Reform.

Michael Sean Winters, a left-leaning columnist for the National Catholic Reporter, raved over a possible Gregory appointment because he thinks the church needs more moderation.

The church needs more people in the style and leadership of Bernardin, committed to a consistent ethic of life, social justice, to engagement with the culture, and who are allergic to vitriol, said Winters.

He said a senior black bishop would be a powerful image in Washington, especially after the explosion of controversy in 2009  including vocal criticism by some bishops  when President Obama was invited to give a commencement speech at the University of Notre Dame, a Catholic school.

Black Catholics experienced the disrespect shown to the first black president in a way that white Catholics never did, Winters said. Even conservative black Catholics who disagree with Barack Obama on many things were turned off by the vile response he got. To receive a black archbishop in the nations capital will be a real shot in the arm.

Like almost all U.S. bishops with a lengthy record in church leadership, Gregorys history of handling abusive priests has been questioned at times.

Gregory, 71, was praised by some for removing abusive priests from ministry when he was bishop of Belleville, Ill., even before the Boston Globes landmark exposure of abuse in the church in 2002. Some advocates say the removals were already in the works before he came.

When the Boston scandal broke, Gregory was president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and he led the bishops through their landmark 2002 meeting in Dallas addressing the crisis.

Terry McKiernan, who leads the anti-abuse organization Bishop Accountability, gave Gregory high marks in some areas  in particular for leading the creation of the Dallas Charter, a document for the U.S. church that created a zero-tolerance policy for priests.

However, critics noted the charter didnt address oversight for bishops  an omission that many activists in the church blame for todays problems.

In 2004, Gregory, as president of the bishops conference, made a speech that some survivors came to equate with cluelessness. The terrible history recorded here today is history, Gregory told a news conference.

That same year, the Illinois diocese that Gregory was leading was held in contempt of court for refusing to release the mental-health records of a retired priest accused of abusing three children. Gregory had removed the priest from ministry nine years earlier, but the diocese fought the civil case brought by one of the victims.

Gerard OConnell, a longtime Vatican reporter in Rome who recently wrote an article with a very rare leak from the most recent pope vote, in 2013, said Friday that it is very unusual for names of new bishops to get out well in advance.

OConnell, associated editor for America magazine, like several other writers for Catholic publications, said the magazines sources had not confirmed the Gregory appointment. He believed there was extra caution being taken about Washington.

Theyre taking great care, given Theodore McCarrick. They want to appoint someone who on the abuse question is above question, he said. Theyre trying to make absolutely sure they didnt get someone who has some problem.

Editor-in-chief J.D. Flynn said Friday that the leaks were part of an unusual era in Washington.

Nothing is ordinary about this archdiocese at this time, Flynn, whis is also a canon lawyer, said. Washington has been the epicenter or one of the centers of the abuse crisis in the United States.

Flynn said his sources said there is extra reviewing going on of candidates backgrounds to make sure there arent things that are a source of scandal or difficulty.

Flynn said the interest among Catholics in this opening has been intense. It far exceeds interest Ive seen [in previous openings] in the United States before.

Asked how he felt about the speculation that leaking to an outlet with a more conservative readership was deliberate, Flynn declined to add any detail about the thinking of the people who leaked the news.

. Like everything else now, there is a lot of polarization, Flynn said. And one thing you know is, when you report facts now, its so often said you are making some kind of statement. We just think this is news and wanted to cover it.

This story has been updated to move up a comment from Catholic News Agency Editor-in-Chief J.D. Flynn defending the veracity of the publications report.

Julie Zauzmer contributed to this report.


One of Chvezs signature accomplishments was reducing homelessness. But in some corners, those gains have been vanishing.

Mara Eugenia de las Rosas lives in a former school building turned homeless encampment in Caracas. They named the community Hope.




A Russian air force Ilyushin Il-62M jet that arrived with troops and equipment in Venezuela over the weekend is seen at Simn Bolvar International Airport outside Caracas on March 28. (Yuri Cortez/AFP/Getty Images)

After two Russian military planes landed near Caracas this month, the Trump administration issued stark warnings over President Nicols Maduros ties to the Kremlin. But a vessel that arrived in the waters off Venezuelas Caribbean coast a day earlier offered a more telling sign of a deepening relationship that is so alarming to Washington.

Venezuela has the worlds largest known oil reserves, with transport and sales of its thick, sludgy crude long dependent on chemical thinners purchased from the United States. After Washington barred U.S. companies from selling them to Venezuela in January  and warned foreign companies to follow suit  Maduro faced a dire predicament: How would he stave off the industrys total collapse?

Like manna from Moscow,

an answer arrived in the form of a red-and-black tanker, the Serengeti, that loaded a cargo of thinners off the coast of Malta before arriving in Venezuela on March 22. The company that chartered the vessel: Russias state-run oil giant Rosneft.

We keep fighting: Stories of resilience from across Venezuela View Graphic SAN ANTONIO, VENEZUELA - FEBRUARY 19 A girl (MOTHER DID NOT WANT HER IDENTIFIED) follows her mother towards the border with Colombia in the border town of San Antonio, Venezuela on February 19, 2019. Many Venezuelans cross the border to buy goods for cheap or that are unavailable in their own country due to the ongoing economic and political crisis. Others simply cross the border with their possessions to start a life in a new country. (Photo by Michael Robinson Chavez/The Washington Post)

Relations between Russia and Venezuela are excellent, Alexey Seredin, minister counselor at the Russian Embassy in Caracas, said in an interview. At the moment, we are working to strengthen cooperation.

The arrival of vital diluents is only one part of an expanding Russian footprint in Venezuela. Moscow is dispatching military personnel and equipment and is acting to offset U.S. sanctions by shipping Venezuelan crude to India for processing. The Kremlin is poised to increase wheat sales and dispatch more medical aid. This month, Venezuela also announced the opening in Moscow of a regional headquarters for PDVSA, its state-run oil giant.

Next week, Seredin said, a senior delegation from Maduros government will arrive in Moscow to discuss Russian investments in Venezuelas mining, agricultural and transport sectors. Seredin added that the arrival of 99 Russian military personnel on March 23 was part of an effort to maintain Maduros defense apparatus, which includes Sukhoi fighter jets and antiaircraft systems purchased from Russia.

In a televised event Friday, Venezuelan Defense Minister Vladimir Padrino Lpez inaugurated an Armed Force Center of Flight Simulations for Russian helicopters.

This center, and we say it humbly, can only be found in Venezuela and Russia, he said.

He also announced plans for a Russian Sukhoi MK2 simulator in the Venezuelan city of Barcelona, and insisted that a long-delayed plant to produce Russian rifles would open soon in Maracay.

In an era of generally warming ties between the Trump administration and Moscow, Russias deepening involvement in Venezuela is creating a flash point by challenging the U.S. effort to force Maduro from office.

President Trump said Friday that he is likely to speak with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping about the crisis in Venezuela. Earlier in the day, national security adviser John Bolton was more pointed, issuing a statement that condemned the introduction of Russian military personnel and equipment into Venezuela as a provocative act and a direct threat to international peace and security in the region.

Elliott Abrams, the special envoy for Venezuela, declined Friday to elaborate on Boltons suggestion of military intervention.

There are a lot of things we can do in economic terms, in terms of sanctions, Abrams told reporters in Washington. We have options, and it would be a mistake for the Russians to think they have a free hand. They dont.

With more than 50 nations recognizing National Assembly leader Juan Guaid as Venezuelas rightful leader, Maduro is managing the countrys new status as a pariah state by largely operating outside the Western systems of trade and finance, while turning to Russia, and to a lesser extent China and India.

Russias backing of Maduro in the face of the U.S. effort to depose him is increasingly being compared to the Kremlins intervention in Syria on behalf of President Bashar al-Assad. In 2015, Russian involvement turned the tide in Syrias civil war, preserving Assads power and elevating Moscow into a seeming kingmaker in the Middle East.

There is an understanding that [Venezuela] is a rather serious test for Russias ability to act in defense of its interests globally, said Dmitri Trenin, head of the independent Carnegie Moscow Center think tank.

It is unclear whether Russian intervention will be enough to counter the nationwide blackouts and gasoline shortages aggravating the humanitarian crisis that has left millions without access to enough food and medicine. Russias pockets, many argue, are not deep enough to keep Maduro in power.

Yet, coupled with Chinese support, Russias efforts have appeared at least to ease some of the immediate pressures. The arrival of Russian military personnel this month appeared to signal Moscows willingness to ramp up its backing of Maduro, as well as ready his war machine at a time when the Trump administration has not ruled out a military intervention.

Its an ideological chess game. Russia does not need Venezuelan oil, said Russ Dallen, a Florida-based managing partner at the brokerage Caracas Capital Markets. Venezuela is far from their supply lines. It was more an opportunity to stick their finger on Uncle Sams eye in the U.S.s backyard.

China  another Maduro benefactor  has offered more-subdued support. Last week, Beijing barred Guaids representative from a scheduled meeting in China of the Inter-American Development Bank, prompting the multilateral lender to cancel the event. Last month, China joined Russia to veto a U.N. Security Council resolution, drafted by the United States, calling for a new presidential election in Venezuela.

Yet Chinese officials  eager to defend their investment in Venezuela  have for years played both sides of the fence by holding regular meetings with Maduros opposition. In February, Chinese diplomats held talks with senior opposition officials in Washington, according to two people familiar with the meetings. The oppositions pitch: Your investments will be safe if Maduro falls.

On Friday, Maduros government announced a Chinese gift of 65 tons of medical supplies. The announcement came on the same day that the Red Cross said it would begin distribution next month of large-scale aid for 650,000 Venezuelans facing the worst conditions.

This aerial bridge that we are building with China represents an important investment in our people, Maduros industries minister, Tareck El Aissami, told reporters in Caracas.

Russian cooperation with Venezuela dates to arms deals struck with Hugo Chvez  Maduros predecessor and socialist mentor. Between 2006 and Chvezs death in 2013, Venezuela bought nearly $4 billion in Russian military equipment, including an estimated 5,000 MANPADS surface-to-air missiles.

Military cooperation led to massive Russian investments in Venezuelas oil sector, and a willingness to extend loans on favorable terms. In early December, two nuclear-capable, long-range Russian Tu-160 bombers arrived at the international airport outside Caracas. The Russian aircraft later took part in joint exercises.

But Russia has far less potential firepower to theoretically deploy in Venezuela than it brought to bear in Syria  in part because Venezuela is so far away. Russia has no full-fledged military base in the region, and its only aircraft carrier is out of commission.

There will be political, moral support, said Fyodor Lukyanov, a Russian foreign policy analyst who has advised the Kremlin. But Russia cant send an armed contingent over there. Its just not realistic.

Yet economic lifelines may be more important for Maduros survival. The U.S. sanctions issued in January blocked Venezuela from selling its crude to the U.S. refineries designed to process its high-viscosity crude. This month, shipping in and out of Venezuela has been chaotic amid nationwide power blackouts. But at least one tanker left Venezuela for India, carrying Venezuelan crude to a partly Russian-owned refinery, said Dallen, the Florida-based broker.

Before the U.S. sanctions, Venezuela exported crude to the United States and imported the gasoline refined from it. The sanctions left Maduro struggling to address a sudden shortage of gas. Ivan Freitas, a PDVSA union leader, said that reports from port workers with access to vessel schedules show that Rosneft delivered at least one shipment of 300,000 barrels of gasoline to Venezuela last month, with roughly 1.6 million more barrels expected to arrive but not yet confirmed.

Rosneft has become the savior of PDVSA, Freitas said. The companys help is buying time . . . for Maduro.

Rosneft did not respond to a request for comment.

Russian assistance extends beyond the oil industry. Last month, Moscow delivered 7.5 tons of medical supplies and pledged to ship 7.7 tons more. Though of minimal help in light of the massive problems confronting understaffed, undersupplied and deteriorating hospitals across Venezuela, the Russian aid provided Maduro with a public relations coup.

Inside the Ana Francisca Prez de Len Hospital in eastern Caracas on Friday, its pro-Maduro director, Zayra Medina, said the Russian aid arrived Feb. 23, escorted by a Russian man, an interpreter and a man with a video camera. She said the hospital went through the supplies in about 10 days.

We hope they keep helping us, she said. I feel happy knowing were not alone. Russia is helping us save lives in the middle of a storm.

Faiola reported from Miami and Troianovski from Moscow. Anna Fifield in Beijing and Carol Morello in Washington contributed to this report.


Israeli forces used tear gas and live ammunition Saturday to repel tens of thousands of protesters gathered along the Gaza border to mark the anniversary of demonstrations aimed at easing Israels blockade, but the days violence was muted compared to that of a year earlier.

Gazas Health Ministry reported four deaths from gunfire: a 21-year-old man and three 17-year-old boys. About 316 people were injured, including 64 by live ammunition, it said.



Israels military said 30,000 protesters had gathered Saturday; some throwing stones and burning tires. Grenades and explosive devices had been thrown at the fence, it said. The military released footage showing several Palestinians hurling stones near the first layer of fencing, with one grabbing hold of it.

Tear gas dropped by drones and shot from the Israeli side of the fence regularly showered the crowd, which was largely peaceful and drew families, while the sound of gunshots occasionally rang out.

Walking toward the fence with his 11-year-old son, Adel Yassin, a 50-year-old translator, said he didnt care about the risk. We are dying silently anyway, he said. Im not able to feed them and support them, he said of his eight children. If we are going to die, well die standing.



Palestinian protesters run for cover from tear gas during clashes with Israeli forces near the border with Israel east of Gaza City. (Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)

Saturdays protest was in contrast to the scene a year earlier, when 15 Palestinians were killed and more than 750 were shot as they gathered for the first day of the March of Return and live rounds were fired nearby continually. The protests have continued weekly, since.

The march has aimed to draw attention to the Palestinian right of return to homes lost in the 1948 war and now inside Israel, but Hamas has also used the demonstrations to urge Israel to loosen restrictions on Gaza and help fix its chronic electricity problems, with Egypt trying to broker an agreement between the two sides.

In exchange, however, Gazas residents have paid a high price. The death toll has reached 269, according to Palestinian health authorities in Gaza. The United Nations puts the number of protesters killed at 195 until March 22, saying that an additional 76 people have died in other circumstances, including airstrikes as a result of attempting to infiltrate Israel. The United Nations and local officials say that about 6,900 people have been shot with live ammunition.

Israels use of force over the past year has sparked widespread condemnation; the country has denied that it changed its rules of engagement. Israel rejected a U.N. report last month that said the Israeli military may be responsible for war crimes for using lethal force against unarmed protesters who did not pose an imminent threat. One Israeli soldier has been killed and six injured.



Palestinians pray together during a demonstration near the border with Israel in Malaka, east of Gaza City, on March 30. (Mahmud Hams/AFP/Getty Images)

Hamas officials said Egyptian mediators were expected to return on Sunday with a timeline from Israel for the implementation of a deal, which includes extending the area Gazas fishing boats are allowed to use, connecting a power line to Israel and easing restrictions on trade.

Qatar has already agreed, in coordination with Israel, to extend a temporary deal that has allowed in cash for Gazas power station and aid for poor families.

More than 2 million Palestinians live in Gaza, and Hamas officials have said the demonstrations have helped divert some of the frustration that had been brimming against its government back toward Israel. But patience has worn thin, and demonstrations against Hamas have been bubbling up in recent months, spurring the group to push for more concessions from Israel.

Officials from Hamas and Islamic Jihad, Gazas second-largest militant faction,

had said that the Israeli militarys response to the demonstration Saturday  and what kind of force it uses  would be a test of Israels commitment to a deal. They said Israel had agreed to curb its use of live ammunition.

Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, a spokesman for the Israeli military, said that there was less violence because Hamas had adjusted its use of force. The organizing committee for the protests called for demonstrators to stay at least 200 meters away from the border, not to burn tires and to refrain from tough methods of protesting, a reference to activities such as launching burning kites and molotov cocktails.

But demonstrators still ignored the guidelines, gathering around the fence as usual as some pushed right up to it.

Although Israel and Hamas are enemies, fighting a bloody war in 2014, analysts say its in Israels interest to maintain stability rather than squeeze the group.

In return, Hamas has said it will stop protesters from activities such as launching burning kites and balloons into Israel, a practice that began several months into the weekly demonstrations last year.

Hamas officials, however, said they could not accept an Israeli demand to stop the protests altogether, and discussions on a prisoner exchange have also stalled.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is fighting for reelection in less than two weeks, has been criticized by right-wing members of his governing coalition for being too soft on Hamas.



Israeli Merkava main battle tanks are stationed near the border with the Gaza Strip in southern Israel. (Jack Guez/AFP/Getty Images)



Israeli soldiers gather at a position over an earth barrier along the border with the Gaza Strip in the southern Israeli kibbutz of Nahal Oz, across the border from Gaza. (Jack Guez/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)

Dozens of Israeli tanks are still massed on the border with Gaza following an escalation in hostilities this week after a rocket that the military said was manufactured and fired by Hamas slammed into a house near Tel Aviv, injuring seven Israelis. Israel retaliated with airstrikes, hitting targets including Haniyehs office. Hamas responded with more rocket fire.

There was little sign Saturday that the demonstrations would end anytime soon.

We will continue until the siege is broken, Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar told demonstrators east of Gaza City.

Hassan Zaneen, 26, was shot twice in the protests but said he thought it was worth it.

If there was no pressure, they wouldnt come, he said, referring to Egyptian negotiators. He traveled to the border despite objections from his family. Im not there, he told his mother as she called to check that he hadnt risked going to the border. She didnt believe him.

Read more

Gazans have paid in blood for a year of protests. Now many wonder what it was for.

Israeli jets hit targets in Gaza in response to rocket fire that injures 7 near Tel Aviv

Israels use of fatal fire in Gaza: Excessive force or justified mob control?

Todays coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news


On a snowy December Saturday in 2017, Crystal and Sean Goliday and their young son, Noah, were among some 5,000 District of Columbia families streaming into the D.C. Armory next to RFK Stadium. Inside, staff from nearly all of the citys 236 charter and traditional public schools were pitching their schools to passersby from long rows of brightly decorated, swag-filled booths set up on the armorys hardwood floor.

At EdFest, Washingtons citywide school fair and a modern-day education bazaar that would have been hard to contemplate a generation ago, high schools even had their cheerleaders out. Coaches held up uniforms to entice recruits. The Golidays were excited but anxious as they moved through the crowds. Crystal owned a townhouse in suburban Upper Marlboro, Md., when she and Sean met, but they wanted to raise a family in the city, in a predominantly African American neighborhood where their investment in a home would grow. So they bought a small, 70-year-old rowhouse in the Deanwood neighborhood, just over the Anacostia River from RFK. They didnt want their low-performing neighborhood school for Noah, who would be starting preschool eight months after EdFest, but they hoped to stay in Ward 7 rather than return to the suburbs or pay for private school. They were looking for other public options. In Washington, students could attend any traditional public school with open spots, and nearly half the citys public school population attended charter schools, publicly funded but privately operated.

Taylor Johnson on her way to KIPP DC College Prep in Northeast Washington.

Crystal and Sean tried to read the body language of representatives of popular schools as they worked their way up and down the aisles at EdFest. Well never get in here, Crystal sighed, sizing up the crowd at the Washington Yu Ying Public Charter School booth, a Chinese-English immersion program. Like many of the citys more affluent families, Crystal was drawn to specialized schools such as Yu Ying.

After exchanging pleasantries with the principal of Cleveland Elementary, a Spanish-English bilingual school run by D.C. Public Schools, the citys traditional school district, Crystal asked, Can you tell me, honestly, our chances?

Really, honestly, you have to just try the lottery, the principal responded.

Were concerned that well be stuck with the neighborhood school, Sean told me a short time later, as he darted after Noah. He liked a high-achieving school on Capitol Hill that uses the Reggio Emilia educational philosophy.

Sean and I both went to city public schools, Crystal said. We want Noah to be challenged. The Golidays were also drawn to schools that were racially and socioeconomically diverse. They didnt want Noah to be among the only African American students in his school.

Because My School DCs software places students, the system levels the playing field for families who lack political connections or the time to complete scores of applications.

Taylor Johnson, an eighth-grader at Democracy Prep Congress Heights Public Charter School, had different priorities at EdFest. A fourth-generation Washingtonian, she had grown up in a two-bedroom apartment with her mother and father and twin brother, Todd, in the Southeast Washington neighborhood of Congress Heights, just a few blocks from Democracy Prep. The following school year, 2018-19, she and Todd, who goes by T.J., would be in high school.

Their mother, Kelli Johnson, graduated from nearby Ballou High School and was the first in her extended family to earn a college degree. Taylor, partial to jeans, sneakers and big earrings, had aspirations beyond high school. I want to go to college, she told me. Be a teacher or do cosmetology. Ballou had a cosmetology program, but it was among the lowest-rated schools in the city, and Taylor wasnt impressed when she visited. People were playing in class, teachers werent teaching, she said.

Taylor and her brother lived in one of the toughest neighborhoods in the city. A week after I visited Democracy Prep last year, a Ballou student was fatally shot in the middle of the afternoon across the street from Taylors school. Ive asked to go somewhere where I know Im safe, the 14-year-old told me.

Pre-K student Noah Goliday with parents Sean and Crystal Goliday at a Valentine's Day event at Elsie Whitlow Stokes Community Freedom Public Charter School.

Her parents didnt need any convincing. To the Johnsons, that meant going to high school on the other side of the Anacostia River. At EdFest, Taylor bypassed Ballou, Anacostia High School, Friendship Tech Prep and other Ward 7 and 8 schools. It was the pitches by McKinley Tech, KIPP DC College Prep, E.L. Haynes and the Duke Ellington School of the Arts in Georgetown that she wanted to hear.

Public school choice has expanded steadily in the nations cities since the first magnet schools emerged nearly five decades ago as a way to desegregate public school systems voluntarily, and especially since the start of charter schooling in the early 1990s. But in Washington and the rest of the country, taking advantage of expanding school options traditionally meant navigating myriad application timelines and deadlines without information to make clear comparisons. It meant oversubscribed schools pulling names out of paper bags, families pitching tents on sidewalks  or paying others to camp out for them  to get to the front of wait-list lines, and schools cherry-picking applicants to get the most attractive students: a system favoring the well-educated, the wealthy and the well-connected.

For schools, the system made planning almost impossible. Many students were admitted to multiple schools but didnt let schools know their plans  causing thousands of wait-listed students to change schools through September and early October, leaving schools guessing about revenue and staffing, and disrupting instruction. Now, the Johnsons and the Golidays were following a very different route. Since the 2014-15 school year, the Districts 93,000 public school students have selected traditional public schools and charters through a single centralized application process powered by a computer program that matches as many students as possible to their top choices.

For all its success, My School DC has suggested there are limits to what school choice can accomplish  especially as an antidote to racial and socioeconomic segregation.

Launched by then-Mayor Vincent C. Gray and run by a unit in the Office of the State Superintendent of Education called My School DC, the common enrollment system starts with schools submitting lists of open spots. Students or parents set up accounts on the My School DC site and rank their preferences, applying to as many as a dozen schools after searching with a My School DC search engine, via fairs like EdFest, or by attending public school open houses.

My School DC gives students random lottery numbers. Then an algorithm works to place as many students as possible in the schools they want, giving those with better lottery numbers an edge when schools are oversubscribed.

Students are automatically placed on the wait lists of schools theyve ranked but arent matched with, including schools higher on their lists than schools they are matched with. And My School DC matches wait-listed students as spots become available. Parents and students can track their standing online.

Every student in the city is guaranteed a spot in a neighborhood DCPS school. Today, though, with families able to move beyond neighborhood school boundaries, only 27 percent of Washingtons public school students take that option.

Because My School DCs software places students, the system levels the playing field for families who lack political connections or the time and resources to stand in lines, lobby school principals and complete scores of applications. The algorithm rewards the ranking of schools in students true preference orders, removing any advantage of attempts to game the system. And a common online application process eliminates multiple deadlines, lost paperwork and the cost to schools of hiring people to input thousands of paper applications.

The common enrollment system is an important window into Washingtons changing educational landscape  generating a trove of information about school preferences that is shaping city leaders thinking about what kind of schools to create and where to put them. It is also making public education more transparent for families, and bringing new competitive energy to both traditional public schools and charters, even as it has led the two types of schools to work together in mutually beneficial ways. And yet, for all its success, My School DC has suggested that there are limits to what school choice can accomplish  especially as an antidote to the racial and socioeconomic segregation that plagues education systems nationwide.

Noah Goliday in class at Elsie Whitlow Stokes Community Freedom Public Charter School.

The Golidays and Johnsons had a Nobel Prize-winning Stanford University economist named Alvin Roth to thank for the My School DC enrollment system. He grew up in Queens, the son of public high school teachers who were less than pleased when he stopped going to classes his junior year. A Columbia University engineering professor who had been working with Roth in a weekend science program for talented high-schoolers rescued him by getting him into the Ivy League school at the start of what would have been his senior year, without a high school diploma. He went on to earn a Stanford doctorate and a Harvard professorship.

Roth, now 67, gravitated to matching markets, where parties must choose one another, through applications, courtship and other means. In 1995, he wrote a mathematical algorithm that greatly improved the efficiency of the system for matching medical school graduates to hospitals for their residencies. That work led him to improve the matching models for law clerkships, the hiring of newly minted economists, Internet auctions and sororities. Im a market designer, he says. Currently, Im focused on kidneys. Were trying to match more donor kidneys to people globally.

He brought his expertise to the education sector when he was teaching at Harvard. He got a call in 2003 from a New York City Department of Education official who had read his work on residency matching and wanted him to redesign New Yorks dysfunctional high school enrollment system. In New York, which has the nations largest public school district, high school choice is mandatory. Every year, the citys roughly 80,000 eighth-graders must select, via application, from more than 700 programs spread across New Yorks five boroughs. The system was surpassingly stressful for families, who were forced to put at the top of their lists schools they thought would be less popular rather than schools they really wanted to attend. It was also rife with cronyism, and thoroughly ineffective. At the end of the months-long process, some 30,000 students were left without schools to attend.

Roth and a star Harvard graduate student, Parag Pathak, the son of Nepalese immigrants and now an MIT professor, adopted Roths medical match methodology to streamline the New York system, working with another market expert, economist Atila Abdulkadiroglu, now at Duke. In 2012, Roth won the Nobel Prize in economics for his matching work, including the New York project.

After students school selections and lottery numbers are uploaded into a computer, Roth explained in his modest office in the Stanford economics department, the machine executes a vast number of nearly instantaneous school placements, making temporary matches that are constantly revised as schools are filled with students that rank them higher and have higher tie-breaking lottery numbers. Unmatched students cascade through the system, as the computer works to match them to their next-highest choices.

The model gives students who dont get their first choices just as much chance of getting their second choices as if they had ranked their second choices as their first choices, Roth told me, permitting every family to put the schools they want most to attend at the top of their lists and putting more students in schools they want to be in. Children who grow up in poorer neighborhoods shouldnt be condemned to go to poorer schools.

Todd Johnson, who goes by T.J., outside McKinley Tech. T.J. had been interested in McKinley Tech and Banneker Academic High but made McKinley his first choice.

Promoting school choice isnt a universal goal among public educators. Administrators worry the common enrollment model could encourage more students and funding to flow to the charter sector. Charter leaders, especially at popular schools, worry about losing control of their enrollment and losing market share to other charters. Former D.C. schools chancellor Antwan Wilson rejected common enrollment in his prior job leading the Oakland, Calif., school district in the face of intense pressure from unions and traditional public school advocates  only to lose his next job over the policy when he sidestepped the My School DC system in placing his daughter in a DCPS high school last year.

But in Washington, the teacher union is weak, and Wilsons predecessor, Kaya Henderson, and her counterpart in the charter sector, Scott Pearson, the executive director of the D.C. Public Charter School Board, saw common enrollment as a way to help schools and students. A supporter of school choice, Henderson had improved lotteries for preschoolers and students seeking schools outside of their neighborhoods. In 2011, she launched a common application for DCPSs half-dozen selective high schools. We were driving D.C. parents crazy by having schools manage their own enrollments, she told me.

And the annual game of musical chairs in charter admissions made it tough to know who would show up at her DCPS schools. The picture would be a lot clearer under Roths common enrollment system, she sensed. Schools would get real-time updates on new applicants and on how many current students were applying out. Wait lists would be immediately updated when a student accepted a spot, providing invaluable enrollment information for planning purposes. And a year-end report would tell school leaders where else their applicants applied, highlighting each schools top competitors. It would be like Amazon, a My School DC staffer told me: Shoppers who looked at this product also looked at these other products. (Amazon CEO Jeffrey P. Bezos owns The Washington Post.)

The new system removes any sort of shadow that people cast on charter schools of gaming the system, of being secretly selective, says Scott Pearson.

Pearson viewed Roths model as a way to cut the cost and confusion of having more than 60 charter school organizations running their own application systems. Just as important, it was a way to counter the growing perception that some charters were working to exclude challenging students. The computer-driven system thwarts schools attempts to discourage tougher-to-educate applicants  a problem in the expanding public school choice landscape. And it does schools no good to hold back spots from the lottery in an effort to fill them on their own; they can no longer draw on their wait lists selectively now that My School DC manages the lists. To Pearson, the new system removes any sort of shadow that people cast on charter schools of gaming the system, of being secretly selective.

Abigail Smith was developing the charter sectors common deadline when Gray named her deputy mayor for education in 2013. Building a single citywide public school enrollment system powered by Roths algorithm was her top priority. Youre always in a situation where the rich and the powerful are going to find a way to maximize the system, Smith told me. The idea is to level the playing field as much as possible.

T.J. Johnson practicing the trombone after school.

The Golidays, who moved to the Washington area to attend graduate school, had been exploring the world of D.C. schools since Noah was 1. Crystal tracked Moms on the Hill (MOTH), an online group of thousands of mostly middle-class parents, and visited schools citywide, collecting what she learned in a detailed spreadsheet. Sean was drawn to the experiential learning at the center of the Reggio Emilia school. And they both liked the sense of community at Elsie Whitlow Stokes Community Freedom Public Charter School, a French- and Spanish-immersion charter near Catholic University.

The school had an International Baccalaureate program, high test scores and a diverse student body and faculty. It also had established a partnership with three other dual-language elementary charter schools to send their graduates to DC International School, a dual-language charter middle school-high school. It would give us a clear path to graduation, Crystal said. And so, they put a campus that the school was opening east of the Anacostia at the top of their list, hoping that the large number of spots there would work in their favor.

On Monday morning, two days after EdFest and hours after the My School DC application season opened, the Golidays typed their 12 choices into Noahs portal on the My School DC website and hit send, making them among the first of nearly 25,000 D.C. families seeking spots outside of their neighborhoods, almost a third of them for preschoolers like Noah. Four months later, they would learn Noahs fate.

Meanwhile, the Johnsons werent alone in wanting out of Southeast schools. The flow of students under the common enrollment system has been almost exclusively from east to west, says E.V. Downey, who until recently helped about 400 mostly younger middle-class families a year navigate the public school choice landscape, charging them a few hundred dollars a year as a consultant.

Middle-class African Americans living in Hillcrest and other more-affluent enclaves east of the Anacostia, she says, have bypassed the many highly structured charter schools in their neighborhoods in favor of schools in Brookland, Petworth and other neighborhoods closer to the center of the city that stress art, music and exploratory learning, which are also draws for middle-class white and Latino families. But the commitment of families like the Johnsons to attend schools across the Anacostia River meant that they bypassed not only Ballou and Anacostia High, but also Thurgood Marshall Academy, a highly rated Ward 8 charter school that has struggled to fill its spots in a neighborhood that many families have sought to escape.

Todd Johnson (T.J.), wiry and sporting a fade haircut, was a good student at Jefferson Middle School Academy, where just 18 percent of students met the citys math standards, and where he played trombone in the band, ran track and captained the boys basketball team. He and Taylor and their parents toured several schools, including two of DCPSs half-dozen selective high schools, which required students to meet their admissions standards before including the schools on their My School DC applications.

With many families lacking Internet connections, My School DC makes public service announcements on radio and Metro buses.

T.J. got a thumbs-up at both McKinley Tech and Banneker Academic High but made McKinley his first choice, he told me, because the schools sports program was stronger. Taylor didnt get interviews at either school and shifted her focus to Washington Leadership Academy and KIPP DC College Prep. They both got their applications in before the My School DC deadline, T.J. using a computer in his middle school library, Taylor applying from home before running out the door to cheerleading practice.

With many families lacking Internet connections or transportation to traverse the city researching schools, My School DC spends a substantial part of its $2 million annual budget helping disadvantaged families  including training guidance counselors and other school staff to assist families with applications; hosting information sessions at recreation centers, homeless shelters and other city agencies; and making public service announcements on radio, social media and Metro buses. A nonprofit called DC School Reform Now counsels hundreds of low-income families a year and produces a series of Zillow-like virtual school tours. And enabling families to submit applications via smartphones has helped bridge the citys digital divide.

My School DC has reduced to under 300 a year the number of students that schools enroll outside of the centralized system. In an effort to drive the number lower, the My School DC board last summer gave itself the authority to have the citys inspector general police schools not playing by the rules.

Taylor Johnson hugs Wanice Edwards, ninth-grade dean at KIPP College Prep.

The Golidays and the Johnsons were lucky. My School DC sent Kelli Johnson emails in late winter congratulating Taylor for getting into KIPP College Prep, her first choice, and welcoming T.J. to McKinley, where he was among 185 incoming ninth-graders matched from over 800 applicants.

My School DCs algorithm matched Noah Goliday to Stokes East Ends French program, the familys second choice after the schools Spanish program. Stokes had announced in late February that its new East End campus would be on East Capitol Street in Ward 7, near the Prince Georges County line, a short drive from the Golidays home. Like many families, they had asked a lot of questions when they learned that Stokess young students would be sharing a building with a charter high school. There would be separate entrances and security guards, school leaders responded. That was good enough for the Golidays, and they kept the school at the top of their My School DC list.

When East End opened its doors in August, it had a diverse student body drawn from every ward in the city, with white students living west of the Anacostia River making up 15 percent of its enrollment, the first time in the citys modern history that significant numbers of white students were traversing the river to attend public school, says Pearson.

The Golidays were thrilled they landed a spot. Still, 8,600 students ended up on wait lists without matches. The problem is that there arent enough spots in sought-after schools.

Preferences built into the My School DC system, including for siblings of enrolled students, add to the challenge. A so-called in-boundary preference makes it particularly tough to get into the citys best traditional neighborhood schools. Carving the city into attendance zones and guaranteeing students a spot in the traditional public school in their zone is a way of reconciling school choice with the right of every student to a free public education.

But not surprisingly, families living within the boundaries of top schools exercise their in-boundary advantage more often than families with weak neighborhood options. And because many of the highest-performing neighborhood schools are in predominantly white and more-affluent sections of the city, the My School DC preferences weaken the systems ability to reduce long-standing racial and economic segregation in Washingtons public schools, despite citywide school choice. For the same reason, undoing the preferences would be politically impossible.

That majority white Ward 3 has no charter schools  with their mandate to take applications from throughout the city  compounds the problem. So does the fact that white students make up only 15 percent of the citys public school enrollment, while studies estimate that about half the citys white students attend private schools. So one path to desegregating the citys schools is persuading more white students to stay in the public sector. There are choices white families are making that are reinforcing the status quo racially, says Smith, the former deputy mayor for education.

When the Golidays moved in September to a larger house in Ward 7, Noahs trip to school was only a few minutes longer  across Pennsylvania Avenue SE to East Capitol Street. Each day hes greeted by Stokes staff as he walks into the sparkling new gym under the weight of a big backpack emblazoned with I can do anything.

Based on the success of My School DC, DCPS and the charter sector have started to plan the Districts educational future more thoughtfully.

But for many D.C. students, the daily school commute is a test of their resolve, as I learned when I traveled with Taylor and T.J. Johnson to KIPP College Prep and McKinley Tech on Halloween. Just before school started last summer, the Johnsons, hoping to save money for a house of their own, moved from Congress Heights to Todd Sr.s mothers compact, 1,500-square-foot, World War II vintage brick rowhouse, two blocks from Prince Georges County in Ward 7.

The move meant that Taylor rises at 5:50 in the morning to leave the house at 6:40 in her mothers Nissan Sentra, battling buses down Alabama Avenue SE to the Congress Heights Metro station. It was still dark when we boarded a standing-room-only Green Line train bound for Chinatown at 7:05. We switched to a Red Line train and rode it a couple of stops to NoMa-Gallaudet U station, arriving half an hour after we departed Congress Heights.

From there, we walked half a mile, under a railroad trestle and up a hill through the gentrifying Union Market neighborhood, arriving at KIPP at 7:50. Sometimes Taylor catches a KIPP shuttle bus from the NoMa station. But she mostly walks up the hill by herself.

T.J. follows much the same route as his sister, walking half a mile in the opposite direction once he gets to the NoMa station, across New York Avenue NE and past SiriusXMs massive antennas before reaching McKinleys worn marble steps and metal detectors.

Taylor Johnson in her world history class at KIPP.

Their return home after school takes longer, an hour and a half without their parents ferrying them to the Congress Heights station. Taylor told me the day we traveled together that she feels safe commuting by herself in the dark. Yet for many D.C. students, theres a limit to how far they are willing and able to travel to schools.

Recognizing this, DCPS and the charter sector have started to plan the Districts educational future more thoughtfully. Armed with My School DC data that provides a much clearer picture of families school preferences, they have responded by adding popular programs in neighborhoods that dont have them. It completely changed the game, former chancellor Henderson told me. We went from being a sellers market to a buyers market. It forced us to think about advertising, enrollment and the academic programming we locate around the city, including a big investment in music, physical education and foreign languages. Families that were leaving [DCPS] because they wanted their kids to learn a language can now go to a neighborhood school.

In forcing traditional public schools to compete more directly, the common enrollment system has pressed them to strengthen themselves, as Henderson suggests. It has made school choice fairer and more efficient. And it has changed the dynamic between Washingtons public and private schools. Families are finding public Montessori programs, dual-language opportunities like Noahs and other options that were offered mainly in the private sector in the past. But the long wait lists at some schools and empty spots at others that the My School DC lottery has produced make clear that the success of school choice in Washington will ultimately require creating more strong schools. If we dont have capacity in A-plus schools for all the kids, then some kids arent going to go to A-plus schools, Roth told me. No system of choice can fix that.

Noah Goliday sits with a book in class at Elsie Whitlow Stokes Community Freedom Public Charter School.

Thomas Toch is the director of FutureEd, an independent think tank at Georgetown Universitys McCourt School of Public Policy.


WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 29: Virginia Tech Hokies guard Ahmed Hill (13) stays on the court after missing a last second shot during the second half of the NCAA East Regional game between the Duke Blue Devils and the Virginia Tech Hokies at Capital One Arena on Friday, March 29, 2019. The Duke Blue Devils defeated the Virginia Tech Hokies 75-73. (Toni L. Sandys/The Washington Post)

Sports columnist

As Ahmed Hill shuffled through a hallway early Saturday morning underneath the stands at Capital One Arena, gazing into the nothingness before him, he had to be thinking about it. The curl he ran, down two to Duke with 1.1 seconds showing on the clock. The way he made Zion Williamson, a transcendent talent in an unprecedented physical package, look like a toddler who scattered his Legos all over the floor, confused and jumpy. The way Justin Robinson, who he would call his brother and mean it in every sense, lobbed him the ball.

And the way it hit the rim. The way it hit the rim and bounced away. The way it hit the rim and bounced away as the horn sounded. Duke 75, Virginia Tech 73. If youre Ahmed Hill, how could you stop that from playing on continuous loop in your mind?

[Hokies suffer cruel loss to Blue Devils to end their season in Sweet 16]

I just tried to get my eyes locked on the rim, Hill said, and it just bounced to the left.

Thirty minutes later, there was disbelief in his voice. This East Region semifinal in the NCAA tournament will be remembered  as almost all Duke games have been this season  for the unique feats Williamson pulled off, a jump-to-the-rafters alley-oop dunk on a pass from Tre Jones that seemed headed for the fifth row foremost among them. There is no character like him in his sport  the sport of college basketball  and there hasnt been for years. That he gets to play another game, Sunday against Michigan State with a spot in the Final Four at stake, is a gift.

But lets not forget that with single tick left on the clock, Robinson and Hill and the Virginia Tech coaching staff had Williamson and the Blue Devils beat. Flat-out beat.

Im not even going to lie to you, Williamson said. When he caught it, I said, Ah, were about to go to overtime. I mean, I dont know what happened.

He missed, said his teammate and classmate and roommate, RJ Barrett.

Ignore him, Williamson parried back. He just missed it.

That kind of volley between teammates, with smirks and smiles, can live for Duke, because Duke lives, and improbably. Williamsons college career survives till Sunday. Barretts college career survives till Sunday. To the fortunate  even the outright lucky  go the long exhales, followed by laughter.

[Sweet 16 recap: Elite Eight is set with Duke, Kentucky, Auburn and Michigan State advancing]

They were so damn good to coach, Dukes Mike Krzyzewski said. He gets to do it another couple of days, at least.

This was, of course, the second game in a row in which Duke watched a ball on the rim with the clock perilously near zero, only to have it fall away. On Sunday, it was Aubrey Dawkins of UCF, whose tip-in would have beaten the Blue Devils. It missed. Just like Hill with the lob, somehow it missed.

Sometimes [its] the old thing: The operation was a success, but the patient died, Krzyzewski said. And their play was a success, but it didnt work.

It didnt work. So what died were the collegiate careers of Hill and Robinson, two kids Virginia Tech Coach Buzz Williams used to build a program in Blacksburg out of, essentially, nothing. Put on pause, for a moment, whether Williams is leaving for Texas A&M or not. Hill is a senior. Robinson is a senior. When that ball fell off the rim, Hill slid to the ground on his back with his arms extended in exasperation. Robinson, maybe a dozen feet away, buckled at the knees, bordering on the fetal position.

That play is now part of NCAA tournament history. It doesnt come close to revealing the history Hill and Robinson share.

We roomed every time on the road, Robinson said. There was a lot of nights where we sat up and jus talked about life, especially when I was injured and couldnt play. Just trying to keep his head right. He was trying to keep my head right. Just him being there for me is something Ill never forget. Being able to go through this journey and battle with him for four years, is something Ill never forget.

[Brewer: Kyle Guy, shooting through a slump, is the heart of brainy Virginia]

Krzyzewski pointed out that his Blue Devils, up two but without a field goal since the three-minute mark, actually made two stops in the final 30 seconds before Robinsons lob. The first came when Hill missed a three-pointer. The next came when the Hokies other senior, Ty Outlaw, missed a three-pointer. The Hokies came this far to get exactly those players the shots they had.

I thought it was perfect, Williams said. Ty Outlaw shoots one. Med shoots one. And both passes came from 5 [Robinsons jersey number]. . . . If we were to replay it again right now, I would call the exact same things because of my faith and trust in those guys.

Robinson, the tough and clever point guard, missed a dozen games earlier this year with a foot injury. The Hokies could have crumbled on the court. Robinson could have crumbled off it. Neither did. Hill helped both.

He would always tell me: Just worry about now, Robinson said. It was hard. He knew it was hard for me to sit out. We talked every night about the process, when Im hoping to come back, the process Im going through. Just him being a big brother to me is something Ill always love him for.

So when Hill couldnt convert Robinsons pass, when the Hokies lost, it was Robinson who had to prop up Hill.

I told him after the game, Its not over. Our careers arent over, Robinson said. We both have a bright future ahead. At the end of the day, Ill take the blame for it, say the pass was off-center.

Off-center?

[Feinstein: Tom Izzo and Michigan State were in complete control vs. LSU]

Justin threw a great pass, Hill said. I just came up short.

These are teammates, in the best sense, tussling over whose fault this career-ending loss should be. In that half hour after they could barely pull their bodies off the court, Hill and Robinson and Outlaw all shuffled aimlessly through that hall underneath the stands, covering up their sniffles with their jerseys.

The closest brothers that I get to have, Hill said. We gonna probably be talking forever about our lives, best mans at each others wedding, things like that.

Those will be the times when they look back at their time in the Sweet 16, and maybe even smile. Early Saturday morning, though, they could only go through that lob play, and go through it again, and go through it again. The ball could have gone in. By a fluke, it didnt. And those Hokies seniors have no more games to play.


Columnist

Kyle Guy isnt just a good shooter. Most of the time, his jumper is so pure that, if your life depended on a college player making a deep bucket, you would be wise to beg that he take the shot.

Earlier this season, he made 11 consecutive three-pointers. They werent during warmups, either. They came in real games, against tall men dedicated to disturbing his rhythm. For the season, the Virginia guard is shooting 42.7 percent from long distance, which ranks among the top 15 marksmen in Division I college basketball. Guy is the free spirit on a serious team, and he is one of the few players Coach Tony Bennett has ever allowed to experiment so frequently on offense.

Youve got to give Kyle freedom, Bennett said, because hes a moment away from getting it rolling.

His latest moment is overdue, however. Long overdue. The NCAA tournament has reduced Guy to a dude who must do other things to compensate for his broken J. Hes in a major shooting slump, which is unfortunate because otherwise Guy has been a tremendous ambassador for people dealing with anxiety and an honest spokesman providing insight into the Cavaliers long and difficult pursuit of redemption. Guy makes Virginia easier to embrace because hes so open on a mostly guarded team.

He represents the humanity  the joy, the regret, the goofiness  of a Virginia program built on stodgy excellence. During this arduous Elite Eight run, the Cavaliers have yet to play consistently at their normal, dominant level, but theyre winning on experience, defense and poise. If they want to beat Purdue in the South Region final Saturday night and advance to the Final Four, theyre going to need to find their offense. It would help a great deal if Guy found his shot.

[Live updates from Fridays Sweet 16 games in Washington and Kansas City]

Purdue is more than capable of executing against an elite defense. The Boilermakers rank fourth in the nation in offensive efficiency. Virginia, despite its wobbly tournament performance, ranks just ahead of them at No. 3. If both teams play their best, this game should look like something right between Purdues 99-94 overtime thriller against Tennessee on Thursday night and Virginias 53-49, cover-your-eyes slog against Oregon. A final score in the 70s, perhaps? Unless Guy is right, Virginia will have to strain to produce that much offense.

In three tournament games, Guy is averaging only 7.3 points, about half his normal output. He is shooting 21 percent from the field; he has missed 30 of 38 shots . He has missed 23 of his 26 three-pointers. He had missed 17 straight three-pointers before hitting a couple against Oregon.

True to his character, Guy isnt letting the slump get to him. His mood hasnt changed. Hes still laughing and joking that his misses are robbing Kihei Clark and Ty Jerome of assists. Hes doing other things to help Virginia, tightening up his defense and setting up teammates for good looks. Hes playing so well overall that Bennett has kept Guy on the court for all but five minutes over the past three games.

Still, Virginia needs his jumper. The shot still feels great, Guy said.

So Im going to keep shooting, he said. I dont really feel like Im ever out of rhythm. So as long as they have confidence in me, Ill always have confidence in myself.

There are two ways to look at Guys struggles. You can be impressed that Virginia has been resourceful enough to win three tournament games without his shooting and ponder how dangerous the team will be when his shooting touch returns. Or you can worry that his struggles will be the ill-timed misfortune that keeps the Cavaliers from reaching the Final Four again.

The scrutiny of the NCAA tournament makes it hard for a player to relax when things go wrong, no matter what kind of front he puts up. Story lines become self-fulfilling prophecies. But Guy has endured a long battle with anxiety. He has been treated for it. Hes open about it. He plays basketball with a healthy perspective and an understanding that invincibility is not the goal.

If Virginia breaks through and goes to the Final Four for the first time under Bennett, it will be quite the story of owning up to vulnerability to conquer it. Some fans dont want to hear about the first-round loss to Maryland Baltimore County anymore or the blown lead against Syracuse in the 2016 Elite Eight or any of the Cavaliers tournament failures. They just want it to disappear  from every story, from every joke, from every thought  even though Bennett brings it up at every media availability and the entire team welcomes this challenge.

There is no denial, no willful ignorance, no fuhgettaboutit! anger around Virginia. Its fascinating. Sometimes the Cavaliers could stand to be less introspective and more ornery, but that is not their way. Just like their disciplined style of play, theyre going to do what works for them. And its almost impossible not to appreciate the route they have taken on this journey and the life lessons theyre learning by facing their fears.

Its as important as a Final Four or a national title. Those are the arbitrary conditions we put on concepts such as redemption to make things nice and neat. But living isnt nice and neat. Competing darn sure isnt nice and neat. After all of the mental anguish, Virginia is chasing something greater than a trophy and a pair of net-cutting scissors. It would be a sweet sports ending, but beyond that, there are more battles to come. There are always more battles. Its riveting to watch the Cavaliers, through sports, try to acquire the proper tools for resiliency.

So, yeah, Guy needs to shoot better. But this is so much deeper than his jumper.

On Saturday, Guy will get to play against a longtime friend and competitor, Purdue guard Ryan Cline. They grew up together in the Indianapolis area. They were teammates during the summer and rivals during the high school season. On Thursday, Cline drained seven three-pointers and shot Purdue into the Elite Eight. It reminded them both of a championship game performance that Cline had during an Adidas tournament in high school.

That entire tournament, I played really bad, Cline recalled. Like, I shot the ball really bad. And I came out in the championship game and just came out of it at a good time.

On Saturday, perhaps Guy will be the Indiana kid who breaks out at a good time.

Its surreal, Guy said of being one game from the Final Four. Were dreaming with our eyes wide open right now.

In his open-eyed dreams, Guy still makes those open shots. He wont be afraid to fail, and, really, thats the point of Virginias entire season.

For more by Jerry Brewer, visit washingtonpost.com/brewer.


The first black senator and Americas brief biracial democracy

Hiram Rhodes Revels came to the Senate after the Civil War in a shining moment of triumph  a black man taking over the seat once held by Jefferson Davis. It didnt last.

About Retropod Retropod is a show for history lovers, featuring stories about the past, rediscovered. Host Mike Rosenwald introduces you to historys most colorful characters - forgotten heroes, overlooked villains, dreamers, explorers, world changers. All Retropod episodes All podcasts




Juan Diego Florez, one of todays leading bel canto tenors, singing at the Kennedy Center in 2010. You may hear him in an occasional light Verdi or Puccini role, but, for the most part, he sticks to Rossini, Donizetti and Bellini, the three main bel canto composers. (Evy Mages/For The Washington Post)

Classical music critic

Every so often, when Im pontificating about opera, in print or in person, a reader or an editor will ask me, But what exactly is bel canto? And Im brought up short.

The quickest answer is, It means beautiful singing.  That doesnt explain much. Yet when I say, Bel canto denotes the style of Italian opera of the early 19th century, specifically the works of Gioachino Rossini, Gaetano Donizetti and Vincenzo Bellini  well, that gives you the facts, but it still doesnt really help you. (It doesnt even let you know how you are most likely to have heard of those three composers, who wrote The Barber of Seville, Lucia di Lammermoor and Norma, respectively.)

I could tell you that bel canto operas tend to have dated plots, filled with romance-novel-ish retellings of history, and heroines who keep going mad at inopportune moments. Or I could tell you that bel canto can be intoxicating, and that just trying to find examples to play for you led me to hours of bingeing on old YouTube videos, grinning like an idiot. But Im not sure that will help you, either. Bel canto, I realize, is a little bit like a drug: Descriptions tend to sound either clinical or loopily subjective. To really get it, you need to experience it for yourself, by listening to recordings, watching videos or going to a performance such as Rossinis seldom-played Zelmira, which the Washington Concert Opera is offering with Lawrence Brownlee next Friday evening.

But at least I can give you some orientation.

Bel canto is supposed to be the quintessential way to sing opera. The style is associated with beautiful melodies, silvery voices and floods of rapid notes curling their way up and down the scale, sometimes only loosely around the framework of what the composer actually wrote. Because opera singing is not amplified, one of its basic techniques is developing sufficient breath support to enable your voice to be heard in a 3,000-seat theater without a microphone. Teachers often tell singers to visualize a solid column of air, starting from your diaphragm (or lower) and extending up to your throat, atop which your voice is perched like a golden marble. With good breath support, a singer can spin out a long, long line of music  legato is the term for the flowing unbroken string of connected notes  and bel canto composers wrote long, long melodies for them to sing.

YouTube

Tenors and sopranos who sing bel canto tend to have lighter voices than those who sing, say, Verdi and Puccini. The tenors, in particular, are the welterweights of the opera world. We are currently in a new golden age of bel canto tenors, with Juan Diego Florez, Lawrence Brownlee and Javier Camarena three of the prime exponents. But the only Verdi or Puccini roles youll see them in are the lighter ones, like the Duke in Verdis Rigoletto or Alfredo in La Traviata. Puccini seldom calls for a high C, and never for the high F that Bellini threw in for the tenor lead of his opera I Puritani.

Bel canto voices also need a lot of flexibility to sing all those fast notes. This doesnt necessarily mean a smaller voice; indeed, some of the great powerhouse mezzo-sopranos of recent memory, such as Marilyn Horne and Ewa Podles, have dazzled in bel canto, and the sopranos Joan Sutherland and Maria Callas were not exactly vocally puny. But generally speaking, a very high upper extension often goes hand in hand with a lighter instrument.

As for the high C: The kind of C you hear today is a relatively recent development. In the heyday of bel canto, tenors tackled most notes above a B as falsettos, like a crooner; when the tenor Gilbert-Louis Duprez first tried a full-voiced high C, in Rossinis William Tell in 1831, Rossini compared the sound to the squawk of a capon being strangled. Nonetheless, the note caught on and Duprezs style displaced an established bel canto tradition, to the point that we expect full-voiced high notes. To get an idea of the contrast, listen to Pavarottis gorgeous falsetto high F in I Puritani (toward the end of the ensemble Credeasi misera) and compare it to the full-voiced take of someone like Nicolai Gedda, also far from shabby, in the same piece. (You can also, on YouTube, find more than one video comparing different tenors renditions of this same note, over and over; this is what opera-lovers do for fun. Welcome to my world.) The ne plus ultra of the high-C tradition, the opera that sealed Pavarottis American fame as King of the High Cs in 1972, is Donizettis The Daughter of the Regiment, which Javier Camarena has recently made his own at the Met, overturning decades of company tradition by actually giving encores (most recently last month).

Metropolitan Opera

Although the ideals of bel canto singing have never gone entirely out of style in vocal pedagogy, some of the details  the trills; or the technique called messa di voce, in which a singer swells the voice from very quiet to very loud and back down to quiet in a single sustained gesture; or the art of singing clean coloratura without making chugga-chugga noises in your throat (a controversial point)  have blurred for many singers. This is in part because the actual bel canto repertoire, dated both in its stories and in its ornate style (with each slower aria followed by a faster cabaletta to show off vocal pyrotechnics), was essentially neglected for a hundred years or so, until the middle of the 20th century, when Callas (and others) started exploring it anew and mining these works for their expressive and dramatic potential, rather than just using them as vehicles for gorgeous sound.

Opera companies still tend to focus on only a few titles: Donizetti wrote more than 70 operas, of which only a handful are in regular rotation, and Rossini is mainly remembered for his comic operas, although during his lifetime he was revered for his many serious ones, such as Zelmira. Bellini died cruelly young, at 33, but left some of the most beautiful bel canto operas, and arguably the longest legacy, affecting everyone from Chopin to Verdi to Wagner. (Wagner, notably, wanted bel canto singers in his own operas, but the musical language he developed, with its huge orchestras and roles, gradually evolved another breed of powerful, heroic singer  who too often neglects the legato lines and beautiful singing style that are bel cantos tangible legacy to opera.)



Dame Joan Sutherland, here with Luciano Pavarotti in I Puritani at the Met in 1976, showed audiences that you can have a huge voice and be a great bel canto singer. Pavarotti invoked old tradition by taking a beautiful falsetto rather than singing full voice in the roles infamous high F. (Osamu Honda/Associated Press)

For many 20th-century listeners, Maria Callas, here preparing for a Chicago Norma in 1954, was bel canto, exhuming neglected operas and showing that they could be vehicles for nuanced and passionate acting, as well as beautiful singing. (PictureLux/The Hollywood Archive/Alamy Stock Photo)

Sure, these heightened melodramas can seem dated. Yet their emotions, if you can see through the historical trappings, still ring true. Take the end of Act I of Norma, when the older woman listens sympathetically to the younger womans confession of an illicit affair, only to find that they are both having affairs with the same man  who, seeing that the secret is out, promptly blames not himself, but the younger woman for spilling the beans. (Me? she says, incredulously.) It could be a scene from Mad Men, if the women in question didnt happen to be Druid priestesses.

What really carries the feeling through to the present, though, is the voices. Theres a lot of talk these days that opera exists to tell stories. What they do, though, is tell stories through music, specifically through the voices that sing it. Bel canto puts the full spotlight on the voices, which have a visceral effect in a way no other art form quite does. If you want to understand what makes opera special, and exciting to the people who love it, bel canto is not a bad place to start.

Read more:

Silly humor of dated plot underlines joy of opera

New opera wants the same appeal as television. If only it could be as smart.

Hamilton is opera for our time




Isabela Ferraz is 28 and a workplace-conflict mediator. She describes herself as intellectually curious and dedicated but not so ambitious. Ricky Barrios is a 32-year-old technical writer who is looking for someone communicative enough that syncing schedules feels more like a fun puzzle than a chore. (Daniele Seiss/For The Washington Post)

Isabela Ferraz, 28, is a mediator for workplace conflict. She has managed to apply her professional skills to her personal life. She's been in three long-term relationships, which all ended amicably. Despite her talent for avoiding breakup drama, she says, "I don't believe relationships are easy." She is seeking "a gentleman who knows when to be playful" and who can handle the "emotional labor" of being in a relationship.

I thought Ricky Barrios, 32, a technical writer and self-described jokester who dabbles in stand-up, might be up to the task. The Chicago native says he has dated a bunch but hasnt had much luck with long-term relationships. It used to bug me a lot, like, Why dont these people like me? But Im just going to live my life. He wants someone who has it together because, he explains, I have a lot on my plate and Id like to be with someone who would make it look like less.

We sent the pair to Penn Quarters Cure Bar & Bistro, which takes a farm-to-table approach on cured cuisine. There were some rocky moments right off the bat. Ricky got there first and took a seat in a secluded booth. When Isabela arrived, Ricky confessed, I had an awkward time trying to get out of the low, squishy booth. I scuttled out to give her a hug, but she had extended her hand  that wasnt a great start.

But Ricky had come prepared with a funny opener: He handed Isabela an article on how to escape a bad date. Unfortunately, Isabela said later that she found the gesture more strange than funny. She recalled thinking, He meant it as giving me an exit strategy, but also saying, Im prepared, I have an exit strategy. Maybe he was not very optimistic.

Ricky saw that his joke had fallen flat: She skimmed it real quick and said, Oh, I already know these. And she didnt even crack a smile.



Ricky and Isabela share a laugh. (Daniele Seiss/For The Washington Post)

All was not lost, however. When Isabela ordered the wrong drink, she found it very sweet that Ricky rushed to get the waitress to change it. He scored another point when he suggested ordering a bunch of appetizers to share. I like that he was into food and was curious and open to try things, she said.

As they sipped drinks  red wine for her and an Old-Fashioned for him  and munched on octopus and mac and cheese, they got to chatting, and the evening seemed to be on the upswing. We had a lot of cool things to say to each other, Ricky recalled. And talking to her felt very familiar.

At no point did I feel like escaping, Isabela said.

Ricky found Isabelas work as a mediator fascinating: It is cool to speak to someone who has expertise in a field that I dont.

We talked about a lot of different things. There was a mutual exchange, Isabela told me. He would make a fantastic lawyer. Hes a good listener, but an even more avid questioner.

As they moved on to another round of drinks, the conversation turned to dating, and thats when Isabela said their differences became clear. Hes never had a serious relationship, she said later. She treated the information with neutral curiosity and understanding [but] I didnt feel like I was getting the same [from him].

Ricky, she recalled, was surprised at how friendly I am with [my exes]. When she told him that she had given a couple of them a heads-up that shed be on Date Lab, I think he was reading into it and thought I had a messy involvement with them, she said. And Ricky wouldnt let the matter drop. I was flustered that I kept getting questioned about that topic, she told me. He seemed judgmental about it.

Ricky said later, I just think if its your ex, you shouldnt be keeping tabs on each others romantic happenings.

On the positive side, Isabela, who was born in Brazil and grew up in Miami, said she did feel a connection with Ricky, who is of Salvadoran and Guatemalan descent, through their experiences of growing up speaking Spanish and their closeness with friends and family. Ricky in particular was moved by how close Isabela is with her autistic brother: When she talked about [him] there was a level of empathy and level of care she takes with her family, he said.

That sense of connection was enough to keep them going for another round of drinks and dessert. They hugged goodbye around 11:30. But by the time we spoke the next day, Isabela wasnt sure why she stayed so long. I would have been done in two hours instead of four, she said. For Ricky, any romantic prospects had evaporated by then, too. He said he had a sense of deja vu during the date. Then it hits me! he said.  She reminds me of my cousin! I love my cousin, but I would not date my cousin.

Rate the date

Isabela: 3 [out of 5]. We werent a match, but it was better than most first dates.

Ricky: 3.5. The romance wasnt there, but I wasnt bored for a second.

Update

No further contact.

More from Date Lab:

Shes used to younger men. He was surprised she wanted to remarry.

He believes talking about politics on a first date is impolite. Shes a communist.

He took a chance and surprised his date with an unusual gift.

Apply now to Date Lab


5

Todays bulk-bin aisle is more than oats and trail mix. Heres how to make the most of it.


The National Coffee Association USA recently dropped its annual survey results, and, as usual, theres a wealth of information to sift through to better understand the state of coffee drinking in America. The quick take: While overall coffee consumption remains steady, more Americans are turning to gourmet beans.

Yep, it seems America is becoming a coffee-snob country. Or something close to it.

Every year since 1950, the NCA has commissioned a survey to learn about the nations coffee habits. This years online survey was collected in mid- to late-January and included 2,815 respondents, ages 18 and older, who had consumed a beverage other than tap water the previous day. (You dont actually have to drink coffee to take part in the survey.) The data was then weighted on age, gender, region and ethnicity to reflect the U.S. population, based on the U.S. Census Bureaus 2016 current population survey. In short, it aims to be authoritative.

[For cold-brew coffee, the learning curves not so steep]

According to this years finding, coffee remains the No. 1 drink: Sixty-three percent of the respondents said they drank a coffee beverage (drip coffee, espresso, latte, cold brew, Unicorn Frappuccino, etc.) the previous day, a click down from 64 percent in 2018. (By the way, the second-most consumed beverage was unflavored bottled water, which might help explain the Great Pacific Garbage Patch.) Of those coffee drinkers, 61 percent said they had knocked back a gourmet cup of joe. This, according to the NCA, is the first time gourmet coffee has crossed the 60 percent threshold. Gourmet coffee drinkers clocked in at 48 percent in 2015 and rose to 58 percent last year.

If you ask the NCA how it defines the term gourmet, things get really wonky, really fast.

A spokesman says it has a lot to do with green, unroasted coffee beans: They must have no more than 8 full defects in 300 grams, Jordan Campbell said in an email. The coffee also must possess at least one distinctive attribute in the body, flavor, aroma or acidity. Campbell also notes that the Specialty Coffee Association labels specialty coffee anything with a cupping score of 80 or above (based on a 100-point scale).

But as Chris Vigilante pointed out in a phone call, you can have a lot of variation within those gourmet parameters. He would know. Hes the founder of Vigilante Coffee Co., the Hyattsville, Md.-based roaster and coffee shop. Vigilante said his company doesnt buy any coffee beans with a cupping score below 85. Such beans drop under the standards he has set. Eighty-seven is the breaking point, Vigilante says. Thats when you know its really, really good.

One other factor to consider in Americas apparent turn toward gourmet coffee: The NCA study includes ready-to-drink coffee in this category. Think: The Starbucks can you might buy in the supermarket, Campbell says.

In other words, most American coffee drinkers are not sipping the stuff brewed with glass siphons, using the most expensive beans in the world. They might still be sucking down Starbucks from a can.

The lines havent been defined clearly in the specialty sector, Vigilante tells me. I think its still super-new to the coffee world.

Other takeaways from the 2019 survey:

 African Americans embrace gourmet coffee. Gourmet coffee drinking is up 7 percent among African Americans compared to last years survey. Asian Americans top the list of gourmet coffee drinkers at 47 percent, followed by Hispanic Americans at 46 percent, African Americans at 40 percent and Caucasian Americans at 39 percent. African Americans have embraced non-espresso beverages, including frozen blended drinks, cold brew and nitro coffee.

 Coffee drinking skews older. Seventy-two percent of those polled ages 60 and older drank coffee the previous day. Compare that with respondents ages 18 to 24: Only 47 percent said they had some form of coffee. Overall, the survey indicates that coffee drinking increases as Americans get older.

[How much better can coffee from a Keurig pod machine get?]

 Drip coffee is losing ground. This year, 45 percent of the respondents said they had sipped coffee brewed in a drip machine the previous day. In 2012, the percentage was 61 percent, a drop of 16 points. This represents a gradual but fundamental shift in the American coffee landscape, the survey notes.

Incidentally, single-cup brewers, such as the pod-based Keurig, are the second-most popular brewing method. Twenty-seven percent of those polled said they used these machines the previous day, eight points higher than in 2012.

 People know cold brew; they just dont drink it. Nearly 80 percent of respondents said they were aware of cold brew coffee, but only 20 percent drank it regularly or occasionally. As the survey notes, there is a large opportunity to convert those who are aware of cold brew but not currently drinking. The survey also points out, somewhat academically, that the percentage of cold-brew drinkers might be larger if the question were asked during warmer months, instead of January.

 Were largely satisfied with our workplace coffee. Nearly 85 percent were very satisfied or somewhat satisfied with the coffee options at their place of employment. But the survey points out that theres evidence workers are growing disenchanted with their single-cup-brewed coffee. Only 43 percent were very satisfied this year with the coffee from Keurig machines and the like, down 14 points from 2015.

The pod coffee revolt has started.

Read more:

Did the famous Palm grow into a steakhouse chain at the expense of some of the founders descendants?

Celebrity chef Cat Cora vs. Alinea: Whos at fault in reservation mix-up?

After backlash, Mark Bittman agrees to change the Salty name of his new food site




A bedroom for children in the visitors dorm at the men's maximum security prison in Berezan, Kiev region. (Misha Friedman)



A window in a conjugal room at a women's prison in Odessa. (Misha Friedman)

KIEV, Ukraine  Photographer Misha Friedman says his study of Ukrainian prisons is about the traces that a society leaves behind. At the root of his work, though, are the people left behind.

For his latest project, Friedman, a veteran photographer in Eastern Europe, secured wide-ranging access to Ukraines penal system  a labyrinth of post-Soviet human tragedy. But his photographs have almost no people in them. Instead, he trains the lens on prisons layout and decor, arguing that those details tell the story of a society in flux.

We always look at the people in photos, and we dont pay attention to what we leave behind, Friedman says. Its like how the Neanderthals left drawings on the wall. I am searching for traces of Ukraine.

Those traces include Soviet-era mosaics and Americana kitsch. In one prison, a rounded outline on a wall hints at a religious icon that was taken down. Below it, next to a wilted potted plant, a gold-framed picture of the American boxer Mike Tyson still hangs.

The post-Soviet, the Western and the religious are three often-competing elements in a nation struggling to forge a path out of Moscows shadow. As the intricate mosaics and monumental socialist architecture across Ukraine still attest, the country, with its engineering prowess and fertile soil, used to be a jewel in the Soviet empire. Nostalgia for simpler Communist times is still present among some older Ukrainians. But much of the younger generation and the middle class wants to join Western institutions such as the European Union, an urge that sparked a revolution in 2014 that toppled a Moscow-friendly president.

Five years later, a new presidential election looms on Sunday, with activists dreams of an impartial judicial system taking on government corruption still unfulfilled. But the prison system has seen some changes, with the inmate population reduced by more than half. Friedman says reformers who joined the government after 2014 helped him gain access to the prisons  including to facilities that were shut down as the inmate population shrunk.

Friedman says he has been fascinated in particular by the spaces where prisoners interact with visitors. Cash-strapped prison wardens often try to add homey touches, such as papier-mch fireplaces. Well-behaved inmates are allowed a three-day visit every two months, Friedman says.

But the homeyness is deceiving. The 200 inmates in one womens prison, Friedman was told, receive a total of only about seven overnight visits a month between them. Men, by contrast, appear to be visited much more frequently.

In womens prisons, everything seems nicer  but thats the scary thing, Friedman says. The women are being left behind. Theyre being abandoned in prison.

This series of photographs was produced in collaboration with the Pulitzer Center.



Bakery in a pre-trial detention center in Kharkiv. (Misha Friedman)



Dormitory at a women's prison in Odessa. (Misha Friedman)



Short-term visitors room at a pre-trial detention center in Kharkiv. (Misha Friedman)



Courtyard for women with toddlers at a pre-trial detention center in Kiev. (Misha Friedman)



A portrait of Mike Tyson at a prison in Chernigov region. (Misha Friedman)



Recreation hall at a juvenile prison in Kharkiv. (Misha Friedman)



A room for short-term visitors in Bucha, Kiev region. (Misha Friedman)



A dormitory at a women's prison in Kamenskoe. (Misha Friedman)



A recreation hall at a juvenile prison in Kharkiv. (Misha Friedman)



A cell for women with toddlers inside a pre-trial detention center in Chernigov. (Misha Friedman)



A corridor at a conjugal visit dorm at a men's prison in Bucha, Kiev region. (Misha Friedman)

In Sight is The Washington Posts photography blog for visual narrative. This platform showcases compelling and diverse imagery from staff and freelance photographers, news agencies and archives. If you are interested in submitting a story to In Sight, please complete this form.

More on In Sight:

[A photographer explores the mystique behind her memories of Crimea]

[What its like living in an abandoned building in one of the most-populous cities in the world]

[This photographer documented Syrias ancient monuments, unaware they would be ravaged by war]


Ive been a photojournalist and documentary photographer for most of my adult life; Im accustomed to shooting news and capturing social issues. But over the past few years, I felt an inner drive to go deeper  to become more of an artist.

I needed to shake things up, so last April, around my 56th birthday, I traveled to the South of France for a workshop led by Antoine dAgata, a well-known Magnum photographer. His work is honest and hauntingly beautiful. Hes fearless. Working with him, I thought, might challenge me to expand my style.


It was a quiet Friday in January, when residents of Brumadinho, Brazil, first heard the trees falling. A dam at the local iron ore mine collapsed, generating a wave of toxic waste that crushed everything in its path. Residents tried to outrun the rust-red mud as it engulfed their homes, cars and pets. Almost 300 people were killed or went missing. Now, survivors left with very little are trying to start over.

Denisiana Frana, 39 and a housekeeper, was home alone when she noticed a drain pipe in her home start to shake. Then her phone rang: It was her bosss husband, who worked at the mine, telling her to run.


Flooding in Iowa, the reaction after a Pittsburgh officer was acquitted in Antwon Roses shooting, special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, baseballs Opening Day and more images from around the world.

March 22, 2019 Floodwaters cover the ground below a grove of trees in Sidney, Iowa. The deluge that devastated much of the Midwest over the past week could be a preview for one of the worst years for flooding in the United States, according to federal weather officials. Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News




President Trump at a rally with supporters in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday. (Scott Olson/Getty Images)

Opinion writer

Fresh off his non-exoneration from special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, the president of the United States took his tired, stale and pathetic act of grievance to Michigan. And, once again, he railed against elites, boasted about his intelligence and flaunted his wealth.

Theyre the elite. Im not. Well, I have a better education than them, said Trump, sounding like every insecure wanna-be know-it-all Ive ever met at any age. Im smarter than them. I went to the best schools. They didnt. Much more beautiful house. Much more beautiful apartment. Much more beautiful everything. Trumps tirade in Grand Rapids was almost the exact same thing he said in Duluth, Minn., in June 2018. That sound you hear is me in extended yawn.

Thats not to say there wasnt new material. After all, whats a bully if not a bestower of belittling nicknames for those perceived to be weak. The latest recipient of one of Trumps sophomoric sobriquets is Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-Calif.), the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.

Little pencil-necked Adam Schiff. Hes got the smallest, thinnest neck Ive ever seen, Trump told his braying supporters on Thursday. He is not a long-ball hitter, but I saw him today, Well, we dont really know, there still could have been some Russia collusion. The president went on to say, Sick, sick. These are sick people and there has to be accountability because it is all lies and they know its lies.

[Democrats, evicting Trump in 2020 should be goal No. 1.]

Hours earlier on Capitol Hill, sycophantic Republicans members of the Intelligence Committee also tried to use Attorney General William P. Barrs glass-half-empty summary of the not-yet-released 300-page-plus Mueller report as a hammer as they called on Schiff to step down as committee chairman.

Schiff was having none of it. His five-minute response was blistering, with a recurring phrase said so often that it served as spikes on the road to redemption that the Republicans thought they were cruising down. Each time Schiff said, You might think its okay, he hit them and the president with specific facts that might not meet the high standard for criminal conspiracy, but they are certainly objectionable on moral, ethical and patriotic grounds.

My colleagues might think its okay that the Russians offered dirt on the Democratic candidate for president as part of whats described as the Russian governments effort to help the Trump campaign. You might think thats okay. My colleagues might think its okay that when that was offered to the son of the president, who had a pivotal role in the campaign, that the presidents son did not call the FBI; he did not adamantly refuse that foreign help  no, instead that son said that he would love the help with the Russians. You might think its okay that he took that meeting. You might think its okay that Paul Manafort, the campaign chair, someone with great experience running campaigns, also took that meeting. You might think its okay that the presidents son-in-law also took that meeting. You might think its okay that they concealed it from the public. You might think its okay that their only disappointment after that meeting was that the dirt they received on Hillary Clinton wasnt better. You might think thats okay. You might think its okay that when it was discovered, a year later, that they then lied about that meeting and said that it was about adoptions. You might think that its okay that it was reported that the president helped dictate that lie. You might think thats okay. I dont. You might think its okay that the campaign chairman of a presidential campaign would offer information about that campaign to a Russian oligarch in exchange for money or debt forgiveness. You might think thats okay, I dont. You might think its okay that that campaign chairman offered polling data to someone linked to Russian intelligence. I dont think thats okay. You might think its okay that the president himself called on Russia to hack his opponents emails, if they were listening. You might think its okay that later that day, in fact, the Russians attempted to hack a server affiliated with that campaign. I dont think thats okay. You might think its okay that the presidents son-in-law sought to establish a secret back channel of communication with the Russians through a Russian diplomatic facility. I dont think thats okay. You might think its okay that an associate of the president made direct contact with the GRU through Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks, that is considered a hostile intelligence agency. You might think its okay that a senior campaign official was instructed to reach that associate and find out what that hostile intelligence agency had to say in terms of dirt on his opponent. You might think its okay that the national security adviser designate secretly conferred with the Russian ambassador about undermining U.S. sanctions, and you might think its okay that he lied about it to the FBI. You might say thats all okay, thats just what you need to do to win. But I dont think its okay. I dont think its okay. I think its immoral, I think its unethical, I think its unpatriotic and, yes, I think its corrupt  and evidence of collusion.

Talk about a speaking indictment. Bravo to Schiff for keeping the focus where it belongs. Shame on the president and his followers (there is no Republican Party anymore, is there?) for thinking any of this is okay  or that weve forgotten whats at stake.

Follow Jonathan on Twitter: @Capehartj. Subscribe to Cape Up, Jonathan Capeharts weekly podcast

Read more:

Max Boot: The speech Trump should have given after the Mueller report dropped

Henry Olsen: If Democrats want to protect the rule of law, they cant rush the Mueller report

Marc A. Thiessen: The Trump-Russia collusion hall of shame

Michael Gerson: Trump may not be a Russian agent. Hes just a Russian stooge.


A common ailment is going around, and you probably know someone plagued by it. Caused in part by social media, the 24-hour news cycle and the pressure to check work email outside of office hours, it could hit you, too  especially if you dont know how to nip it in the bud.

Burnout is everywhere.

Books are being published about it, high-powered medical groups are raising alarms and ordinary people are feeling it. A recent report from Harvard and Massachusetts medical organizations declared physician burnout a public health crisis. It pointed out the problem not only harms doctors but also patients.

Burnout is associated with increasing medical errors, the paper said.

Ninety-five percent of human resource leaders say burnout is sabotaging workplace retention, often because of overly heavy workloads, one survey found. Poor management contributes to the burnout epidemic.

Organizations typically reward employees who are putting in longer hours and replace workers who arent taking on an increased workload, which is a systematic problem that causes burnout in the first place, says Dan Schawbel, research director of Future Workplace, the firm that conducted the survey along with Kronos.

"Mommy Burnout," a book published last year by psychologist Sheryl Ziegler, resonated with women who had run themselves into the ground trying to be super mom (and dads made it clear they were burned out, too).

A new book, Burnout: The Secret to Unlocking the Stress Cycle, by sisters Emily Nagoski (a health educator) and Amelia Nagoski (a choral conductor who was hospitalized for burnout) aims to help women, in particular, live a more balanced life.

Burnout is a term easily tossed around, the way somebody might claim to be starving when theyre simply hungry, or freezing when cold. Thats harmless if a person is describing a tired day or week. But somebody who is actually burned out should be prepared to take serious action because its a condition that needs attention.

[How you can battle burnout]

Amelia Nagoski was juggling the demands of a doctoral program when she experienced such severe abdominal pain she was hospitalized. Doctors concluded it was just stress and told her to relax. Turns out, she had stress-induced inflammation from burnout.

Ziegler defines burnout as chronic stress gone awry. The big three symptoms are emotional exhaustion, cynicism and feeling ineffective, according to the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), a survey designed to measure employee burnout in the workforce. Other symptoms can include frequent colds or sicknesses, insomnia and a tendency to alleviate stress in unhealthy ways, such as with too much alcohol or online shopping.

Part of the difficulty of pinpointing true burnout may be because burnout is a nonmedical term  at least in the United States. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders doesnt list it as an illness. But other countries including France, Denmark and Sweden, do recognize burnout syndrome and consider it to be a legitimate reason to take a sick day from work.

Everybody intuitively recognizes what burnout feels like in their bodies and their feelings and their thoughts, Emily Nagoski says. Its like art: You know it when you see it.

Even without an official diagnosis  or agreed upon definition  American researchers have studied burnout for decades. Psychologist Herbert Freudenberger popularized the term in the 1970s, basing it on his work with drug addicts where he witnessed their veins burn out from needle injections and their cigarettes burn down. Soon after, psychologist Christina Maslach developed the MBI.

Burnout is caused by chronic stress, not stressors, the Nagoskis say in their book. Its important to differentiate the two. Stressors are external: to-do lists, financial problems or anxiety about the future. Stress, on the other hand, is the neurological and physiological shift that happens in your body when you encounter [stressors], the Nagoskis write.

To fix burnout, people need to address the stress itself. They must allow their body to complete its stress response cycle. Instead, people tend to focus on stressors. They assume their stress will go away if theyre on top of things, if theyre accomplishing things and constantly checking things off their to-do list, Emily Nagoski says.

Thats a lesson Paula Davis-Laack learned the hard way.

Davis-Laack practiced commercial real estate law before the Great Recession of the late 2000s. The fast-paced environment gave her a constant adrenaline high as she closed deals and kept so busy that she barely left time to grab a handful of peanuts for lunch. Her frequent headaches, stomach aches and colds threatened to drag her down, but no doctor could give her a diagnosis.

One day, drafting a document in her office, she says she felt like she couldnt breathe. She bolted out of her chair and raced to a nearby health clinic. Help me! she gasped. She was having a panic attack. After two more medical crises landed her in the emergency room, she feared a mental or physical collapse if she kept going. She decided to walk away from the law.

It was like a 50,000-pound weight lifted off my shoulders, she says.

Still unsure of what was wrong, she poked around the Internet doing research of her own when she came across information on burnout. I was like, Oh my God, this is exactly what happened to me! 

Davis-Laack traces the beginning of her burnout back to her teenage years.

There were a lot of messages to be a high achiever, she says. Those check-the-box matrix measurements were important to me. I internalized them.

The messages took an even stronger hold once she started working.

She returned to graduate school to study well-being, the effects of stress and their effect on the workplace. In 2013, she opened the Davis Laack Stress & Resilience Institute in Wisconsin. She now teaches workshops on burnout.

For those who suspect they might be on the road to burnout, there are practical tools to mitigate it. Among others: physical exercise, sleep and positive social connection (the real kind, not the Facebook kind). The importance of balance and self-care to prevent burnout likely isnt surprising to most.

Theres nothing fancy about what it would take to turn things around, says Ziegler, the Mommy Burnout author. But its a huge shift in the cultural mind-set. Thats the challenge.

Plus, fixing burnout can feel like adding more stressors. An employee who takes a lunch break in a park (time in nature reduces stress) might feel pressured to stay late at the end of the day. A yoga class or walk is another item to squeeze into the calendar. A mom cant quit her parenting job. To address time-management issues, the Nagoskis provide work sheets in their book to help readers reprioritize activities. Ziegler suggests setting boundaries with social media. Use the Internet for help, such as ordering groceries, but limit scrolling to 10 minutes a day. Also, its okay to remove activities from the calendar (or quit them completely) so you can exercise.

Gender might play a role in burnout, too.

Researchers from the University of Montreal questioned 2,026 people, half women, in 63 different workplaces. Their work, published in the Annals of Work Exposure and Health, found that women reported higher levels of burnout.

One reason was because women have more work-and-family conflicts. The womens rights movement was supposed to give women choices, Ziegler says. Sounds awesome, but it became you need to do it all. You need to run your house and be the perfect wife and mom and work. The stress on women got higher.

Other studies have shown that rates of burnout are more or less equal among genders, although males and females experience it differently. A study published in BMC Public Health showed that female physicians are susceptible to burnout from emotional exhaustion while male physicians to burnout because of cynicism.

Steven Manning remembers the night he realized he had become pessimistic about practicing medicine. One Wednesday at his family care practice in Williamston, N.C., he worked on electronic medical records well past 9 p.m. His wife and kids waited for him at home. He had seen about 30 patients that day but felt he hadnt given a single one the highest level of care because the appointment times were too short. Yet the hospital and insurance companies kept pressuring him to see more patients a day, not fewer.

I began to think, Im burned out. How did I get to this point? I dont enjoy coming into work.  It wasnt too late to make a change. Within a year, Manning started a direct primary care practice, a model where patients pay a membership fee, negating the need for insurance billing. Without mounds of paperwork, he had time to do what he truly wanted: help patients.

It brought back the joy of medicine I felt I was missing, he says. Before, I barely had time to address my patients diabetes, hypertension and heart failure, let alone spend time taking a mental and spiritual inventory.

Now, he talks with patients about depression, anxiety and stress and notices many patients are burned out, especially mothers of young kids.

Lawyer and mom Anna Swain knows the feeling.

She poured her heart and soul into fixing the troubled lives of criminals who had messed up with drugs and violence only to wind up devastated when her hard work seemed pointless.

Id call my mom every day on my way home from the office crying, she says. I was either sad over a client who was having her third meth-addicted baby or crying over a shockingly rude email by opposing counsel. When she added motherhood to the mix, her feelings of failure increased. I didnt know what I was doing. Nobody does with a first child.

Burned out on doing the next thing I was supposed to do to be a good girl and get ahead, she knew she needed downtime, but she was afraid to take a step back from the hamster wheel. Boredom goes against everything were told to do to succeed, achieve and be proactive, Swain says. Even when I clean the house, I think, Well, I should take the opportunity to listen to a podcast. Maybe I can grow as a person. Honestly, Id grow more if I chose to be in silence and let my mind wander.

She tried it. Rocking her baby to sleep, she wanted to watch the TV series Game of Thrones or scroll through her phone. But she couldnt. One wrong move  or the glow of a screen  would wake her baby up. At first, Swain felt angry and resentful at the lack of distractions, but the stillness gave her an opportunity to daydream. That opened the door to creativity.

I started creating little poems and rhymes in my head. I felt exhilarated, she says. Eventually, Swain wrote a childrens book. I felt a sense of purpose again, she says.

The Nagoskis agree that daydreaming during low-demand tasks, having a creative outlet and engaging with something larger are three more keys to preventing burnout. They suggest writing your own obituary to find out what is meaningful to you.

It sounds dark, Amelia Nagoski says. But it makes you think about who you are and whats important to you.

Making space in our lives so were not so hurried and harried isnt easy, especially in a culture that shames slow living, Amelia Nagoski says. Preventing burnout requires hard decisions. Everyone has the same amount of time in a day: 24 hours. To rest  whether with a walk, an extra hour of sleep or a talk with a friend  means something else drops off the schedule.

At first, you might panic that youre not accomplishing something. But before long, you may notice youve moved farther away from a breaking point. Your downward spiral will change directions.

Read more

Even the small stresses of daily life can hurt your health, but attitude may make a difference

Suicides among veterinarians become a growing problem

Doctors are overloaded with electronic alerts, and thats bad for patients




A tangled mass of fish from the deposit in North Dakota's Hell Creek formation. (Robert DePalma)

Sixty-six million years ago, a massive asteroid crashed into a shallow sea near Mexico. The impact carved out a 90-mile-wide crater and flung mountains of earth into space. Earthbound debris fell to the planet in droplets of molten rock and glass.

Ancient fish caught glass blobs in their gills as they swam, gape-mouthed, beneath the strange rain. Large, sloshing waves threw animals onto dry land, then more waves buried them in silt. Scientists working in North Dakota recently dug up fossils of these fish: They died within the first minutes or hours after the asteroid hit, according to a paper published Friday in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a discovery that has sparked tremendous excitement among paleontologists.

Youre going back to the day that the dinosaurs died, said Timothy Bralower, a Pennsylvania State University paleoceanographer who is studying the impact crater and was not involved with this work. Thats what this is. This is the day the dinosaurs died.

About 3 in 4 species perished in what is called the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction, also known as the K-Pg event or K-T extinction. The killer asteroid most famously claimed the dinosaurs. But the T. rex and the triceratops were joined by hordes of other living things. Freshwater and marine creatures were victims, as were plants and microorganisms, including 93 percent of plankton. (A lone branch of dinosaurs, the birds, lives on.)

Four decades of research buttresses the asteroid extinction theory, widely embraced as the most plausible explanation for the disappearance of dinosaurs. In the late 1970s, Luis and Walter Alvarez, a father-son scientist duo at the University of California at Berkeley, examined an unusual geologic layer between the Cretaceous and Paleogene periods. The boundary was full of the element iridium, which is rare in Earths crust but not in asteroids. Walter Alvarez is one of the authors of the new study.

The Hell Creek fossils represent the first mass death assemblage of large organisms anyone has found that sits at the K-Pg boundary, study author Robert DePalma said in a statement.

DePalma, a doctoral student at the University of Kansas, began excavating the site at North Dakotas Hell Creek formation in 2013. Since then, DePalma and other paleontologists have found heaps of fossilized sturgeon and paddlefish with glass spheres still in their gills.

They found squidlike animals called ammonites, shark teeth and the remains of predatory aquatic lizards called mosasaurs. They found dead mammals, insects, trees and a triceratops. They found foot-long fossil feathers, dinosaur tracks and prehistoric mammal burrows. They found fossilized tree gunk called amber that had captured the glass spheres, too.

The site has all the trademark signals from the Chicxulub impact, Bralower said, including the glass beads and lots of iridium. In the geologic layer just above the fossil deposit, ferns dominate, the signs of a recovering ecosystem. Its spellbinding, he said.

In the early 1990s, researchers found the scar left by the asteroid  a crater in the Yucatan Peninsula. The impact was named after the nearby Mexican town of Chicxulub. Suggested kill mechanisms for the Chicxulub impact abound: It may have poisoned the planet with heavy metals, turned the ocean to acid, shrouded Earth in darkness or ignited global firestorms. Its punch may have triggered volcanoes that spewed like shaken soda cans.

Hell Creek is more than 2,000 miles from the Chicxulub crater. But a hail of glass beads, called tektites, rained there within 15 minutes of the impact, said study author Jan Smit, a paleontologist at Vrije University in Amsterdam who also was an early discoverer of iridium at the K-Pg boundary.

The fish, pressed in the mud like flowers in a diary, are remarkably well-preserved. Its the equivalent of finding people in life positions buried by ash after Pompeii, Bralower said.

At the time of the dinosaurs, the Hell Creek site was a river valley. The river fed into an inland sea that connected the Arctic Ocean to a prehistoric Gulf of Mexico. After the asteroid struck, seismic waves from a magnitude 10 to 11 earthquake rippled through this sea, according to the study authors.

This caused not a tsunami but whats known as seiche waves, the back-and-forth sloshes sometimes seen in miniature in a bathtub. These can be symptoms of very distant tremors  such as the seiche waves that churned in Norwegian fjords in 2011 after the giant Tohoku earthquake near Japan.

Seiche waves from the inland sea reached 30 feet, drowning the river valley in a pulse of water, gravel and sand. The rain of rocks and glass followed. The tektites dug small funnels in the sediment laid down by the seiche, Smit said, so you know for sure they are coming down when the waves are still running upriver. This is preservation, in other words, of a fresh hell.

Read more:

Right after an asteroid killed the dinosaurs, life returned to the scene of the crime

New dinosaur called Chicken From Hell

This triceratops is a Smithsonian icon. Now hell be fed to a T. rex.


Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh concurred Thursday with the Supreme Courts liberal justices that a Buddhist mans execution should be stopped because he was not allowed a spiritual adviser by his side, but last month he was on the other side when the court allowed the execution of a Muslim inmate in Alabama under similar circumstances. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)

Its difficult to say with certainty why the Supreme Court on Thursday night stopped the execution of a Buddhist inmate in Texas because he was not allowed a spiritual adviser by his side, when last month it approved the execution of a Muslim inmate in Alabama under the almost exact circumstances.

But the obvious place to start is new Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, who seemed to have a change of heart.

Kavanaugh on Thursday was the only justice to spell out his reasoning: Texas could not execute Patrick Murphy without his Buddhist adviser in the room because it allows Christian and Muslim inmates to have religious leaders by their sides.

In my view, the Constitution prohibits such denominational discrimination, Kavanaugh wrote.

[Supreme Court stops execution because of religious concerns, a contrast to last month]

But Kavanaugh was on the other side last month when Justice Elena Kagan and three other justices declared profoundly wrong Alabamas decision to turn down Muslim Domineque Rays request for an imam to be at his execution, making available only a Christian chaplain.

That treatment goes against the Establishment Clauses core principle of denominational neutrality, Kagan wrote then.

Kavanaugh and the courts other conservatives did not address Kagans argument, saying only that Ray had brought his challenge too late.

Kavanaugh said in a footnote Thursday he was satisfied with the timing of Murphys litigation. But the difference in when Ray and Murphy brought their requests was not substantial.

Some critics of the court wondered if the difference was one of race and religion. Murphy is white and turned to Buddhism in prison. Ray, who was executed within hours of the courts decision Feb. 7, was black.

But the court in just the last few years has ruled for Muslim petitioners who claimed discrimination: an inmate who was not allowed to grow a short beard because of prison policies, and a woman who was denied a job at Abercrombie & Fitch because of her hijab.

[Supreme Court allows suit by Muslim woman who says headscarf cost her a job]

Ilya Somin, a law professor at the Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University and a sharp critic of the courts decision in Dunn v. Ray, said the most logical explanation is the court was stung by the barrage of criticism it received from the left and the right.

The justices belatedly realized they had made a mistake; and not just any mistake, but one that inflicted real damage on their and the courts reputations, Somin wrote on the Volokh Conspiracy blog.

Presented with a chance to correct their error and signal that they will not tolerate religious discrimination in death penalty administration, they were willing to bend over backwards to seize the opportunity, and not let it slip away.

Deepak Gupta, a Washington lawyer who argues before the court and called the Ray decision indefensible, tweeted: This is how the Supreme Court tries to erase a very recent and obvious moral error without admitting error. Is the Alabama case materially different? They dont say.

It is not clear from the ruling what role Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who were in the majority in the Ray case, played in the Murphy case. They did not join Kavanaughs opinion, nor did they note, as Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch did, that they would have allowed the execution to proceed.

[Supreme Courts execution decision animates critics on the left and right]

Somin said he is fairly confident Alito and Roberts switched because they did not record themselves as objecting, as Thomas and Gorsuch did.

In a high-profile case like this, it would be strange for some justices to clearly indicate their dissent, while others who agreed with that stance kept silent and thereby created the impression they agree with the majority, Somin said in an email.

But that is not always the case, and Kavanaugh plus the dissenters in the Ray case would have been enough to force the outcome in the Murphy case.

The order stayed Murphys execution until the court decides to take up the case on its merits or Texas permits Murphys Buddhist spiritual advisor or another Buddhist reverend of the states choosing to accompany Murphy in the execution chamber during the execution.

The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, which filed a brief on Murphys behalf, said it attempted to disentangle the religious liberty issue from the last-minute attempts to stop executions that irritate the courts conservative majority.

This particular appeal does not present a challenge to the constitutionality of the death penalty, nor is it a challenge to Texas execution of Murphy, the brief argues. This is instead a challenge to the conditions of Murphys confinement immediately prior to his execution.

Beckets First Amendment argument hinged on a point that often separates the courts liberals and conservatives.

Rays lawyers, and the appeals court that at first held up his execution, said Alabamas policy of only employing a Christian chaplain and making him the only cleric available at executions violates the prohibition on government endorsement of one religion over another.

Becket and Murphys lawyers argued that the constitutional right at issue was the inmates ability to practice his religion.

The right of a condemned person to the comfort of clergy  and the rights of clergy to comfort the condemned  are among the longest-standing and most well-recognized forms of religious exercise known to civilization, Beckets brief said.


President Trump plans to slash hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to three Central American countries in retaliation for what he called their lack of help in reducing the flow of migrants to the U.S. border.

The move confirmed Saturday against El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras deepens the White House confrontations with Latin America over a surge in irregular migrations, including asylum seekers and others.

Trump has already warned that he could close the southern border  or at least large stretches of it  unless Mexico takes steps to halt migrants heading north.

The State Department said Saturday that it would be ending . . . foreign assistance programs for the Northern Triangle, a region representing El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. The aid affects nearly $500 million in 2018 funds and millions more left over from the prior fiscal year.

Trump has threatened for months to cut assistance to the three nations, igniting a fight inside the U.S. government with officials who say the funds actually help slow migration. The money goes to programs to address what authorities call the root causes of migration  issues such as poverty, a lack of jobs and violence.

The Trump administration, meanwhile, faced court challenges over its effort to divert funds for more border wall construction under a national emergency declaration.



William Rafael Carranza Martinez looks through the border wall before marrying his partner in Tijuana, Mexico, in April. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

On Friday night, during a trip to Florida, Trump said governments in Central America werent doing enough to slow migration. The number of apprehensions along the U.S.-Mexico border has been soaring, with more than 76,000 migrants taken into custody in February. Many are Central Americans seeking asylum.

Ive ended payments to Guatemala, to Honduras and El Salvador. No more money is going there anymore, Trump told reporters on Friday. We were giving them $500 million. We were paying them tremendous amounts of money, and were not paying them anymore because they havent done a thing for us.

Trumps comments came just a day after Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, signed what the department called a historic memorandum of cooperation on border security in Central America.

Over the past year, Trump has seized on the formation of giant caravans of U.S.-bound migrants as evidence that Mexico and Central America are doing little to discourage migration.

Authorities in the region have said they are taking what measures they can under their laws. Mexico, for example, has offered thousands of temporary humanitarian visas to migrants permitting them to stay and work in the country.

Raul Lopez, vice minister of justice in El Salvador, said in an interview this past week that the flow of migrants from his country was actually slowing.

We see that as proof that our investment  and the investment of the international community  in social issues is working, he said. U.S. assistance has had a positive impact in reducing migration from El Salvador, but we need more help to continue this fight.

Border Patrol apprehensions are far less than their peak of 1.6 million in 2000, but the Trump administration says the flows have changed in character. While most migrants used to be Mexican men who could be easily deported, now they are often asylum-seeking families who are entitled to protections under federal law.

Border Patrol agents have been overwhelmed in recent weeks by the arrival of large numbers of Central American families and children, many of whom are being quickly released into local communities because of a lack of detention space.

Congressional Democrats visiting El Salvador on Saturday said they were extremely disappointed about the aid cutoff.

The presidents approach is entirely counterproductive. It will only result in more children and families being forced to make the dangerous journey north to the U.S.-Mexico border, said the statement from the delegation, which included Rep. Eliot L. Engel (N.Y.), chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Rep. Jerrold Nadler (N.Y.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

The announcement of the aid cutoff comes as a new caravan of about 2,000 Central Americans and Cubans is crossing Mexico. Trump has threatened to close the border next week because of the rising flows of migrants.

John Hudson and Nick Miroff in Washington contributed to this report.

Read more

Todays coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news


View this post on Instagram

At the @isnaconventionbazaar. @salam.sisters dolls are amazing! They come with a bio, two hijabs, and an accompanying app that brings the dolls to life. 


View this post on Instagram

At the @isnaconventionbazaar. @salam.sisters dolls are amazing! They come with a bio, two hijabs, and an accompanying app that brings the dolls to life. 


AM: Its weird because I dont know him. I knew who he was, but I dont know him as a grown man. Its weird to feel like you have a kinship with someone because of shared adversity. I just want to ask, where was he at mentally when he heard [his first lawyer] Cristina Gutierrez was disbarred? Where was he at when he heard [state prosecutor] Kevin Urick testify that I recanted my story in 2010? Where was he in his head when he found out Serial went viral? What does he think about my involvement in this case? Because when Sarah [Koenig] told him that she reached out to me in Serial, you can hear him go silent, and I want to know what was in that silence. Was it hope?


AM: Its weird because I dont know him. I knew who he was, but I dont know him as a grown man. Its weird to feel like you have a kinship with someone because of shared adversity. I just want to ask, where was he at mentally when he heard [his first lawyer] Cristina Gutierrez was disbarred? Where was he at when he heard [state prosecutor] Kevin Urick testify that I recanted my story in 2010? Where was he in his head when he found out Serial went viral? What does he think about my involvement in this case? Because when Sarah [Koenig] told him that she reached out to me in Serial, you can hear him go silent, and I want to know what was in that silence. Was it hope?


Otegha Uwagba: When the no happens, dig into why and what you need to do. If you put together your case, listed all your achievements, and you still get a no, bear in mind that some situations are out of your control. Think: Okay, so what do I have to do, and by when, in order for me to get this pay raise? Set a concrete timeline. Make sure your boss gives you concrete and realistically timed targets, and measurable [targets] as well. Once youve left, follow up on email about what you and your boss discussed to make sure you have it in writing. Outline the things youre going to do, reiterate that you two agreed to review the situation at XY date, and then follow up on that date. It becomes harder to give you the runaround that way.


Otegha Uwagba: When the no happens, dig into why and what you need to do. If you put together your case, listed all your achievements, and you still get a no, bear in mind that some situations are out of your control. Think: Okay, so what do I have to do, and by when, in order for me to get this pay raise? Set a concrete timeline. Make sure your boss gives you concrete and realistically timed targets, and measurable [targets] as well. Once youve left, follow up on email about what you and your boss discussed to make sure you have it in writing. Outline the things youre going to do, reiterate that you two agreed to review the situation at XY date, and then follow up on that date. It becomes harder to give you the runaround that way.


cientists have long believed that spending time in nature positively affects our health and happiness. One finding in particular provides great news in our ever-connected world: it only takes three days for our minds to reap the benefits of the great outdoors.

The phenomenon called the three day effect describes how this short amount of time lets our brains relax, leaving us feeling mentally reset. If youre itching to experience this healing power of nature, youre in luck: Theres a hidden gem waiting for you just beyond the U.S. border in Canadas Niagara region.

Thirty minutes north of Buffalo and bordered on the east by the Niagara River is a jewel of a peninsula ripe with opportunities to connect with nature. While most Americans associate Niagara with its popular Niagara Falls, the region boasts many other lesser-knownand quieteroutdoor vistas, especially near Niagara-on-the-Lake on the shore of Lake Ontario. Fittingly, Niagara Falls is also said to be the worlds largest generator of negative ions, which are believed to have positive health effects.




Nevada Assemblywoman Lucy Flores, then the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor, introduces Vice President Joe Biden at a rally in Las Vegas on Nov. 1, 2014. (Ethan Miller/Getty Images)

A onetime Democratic nominee for Nevadas lieutenant governor accused former vice president Joe Biden on Friday of touching and kissing her without her consent during her campaign in 2014, an experience she says left her feeling mortified, embarrassed and confused.

In an essay published by The Cut, Lucy Flores wrote that when she learned the then-vice president had offered to appear at a rally in Nevada to support her campaign, she was grateful. But that feeling changed, she said, when Biden approached her from behind as she was getting ready to address the crowd.

She wrote that she felt the vice president place two hands on her shoulders before moving closer to her from behind.

Then, she says, Biden kissed her on the back of her head.

He proceeded to plant a big slow kiss on the back of my head. My brain couldnt process what was happening. I was embarrassed. I was shocked. I was confused. There is a Spanish saying, tragame tierra, it means, earth, swallow me whole. I couldnt move and I couldnt say anything. I wanted nothing more than to get Biden away from me. My name was called and I was never happier to get on stage in front of an audience. Lucy Flores for "The Cut"

As a young Latina, Flores said, she was used to feeling like an outsider in a political world dominated by white men  but she had never experienced something so blatantly inappropriate and unnerving before.

Flores said she told a few members of her staff what happened but was initially reluctant to talk to anyone else.

Is it enough of a transgression if a man touches and kisses you without consent but doesnt rise to the level of what most people consider sexual assault? she said. I did what most women do, and moved on with my life and my work.

Biden is expected to announce soon whether he will run for president in 2020. A spokesman for Biden on Friday said the former vice president was pleased to support Flores in 2014, and neither he nor his staff had an inkling that Ms. Flores had been at any time uncomfortable, nor do they recall what she describes.

But Vice President Biden believes that Ms. Flores has every right to share her own recollection and reflections, and that it is a change for better in our society that she has the opportunity to do so, the statement read. He respects Ms. Flores as a strong and independent voice in our politics and wishes her only the best.

During a March 16 speech in Dover, Del., Biden referred to himself as a tactile politician.

I always have been, and that gets me in trouble as well, because I think I can feel and taste what is going on, he told the crowd.

Over the years, Biden has been captured in numerous images and videos embracing, kissing and standing close to women. These instances were brushed off by some who saw his actions as lighthearted, and Flores lamented that Biden was able to keep his title of Americas Favorite Uncle despite myriad publications documenting his actions.

In this case, it shows a lack of empathy for the women and young girls whose space he is invading, and ignores the power imbalance that exists between Biden and the women he chooses to get cozy with, she wrote.

Floress account comes as Biden faces scrutiny over the way he handled the accusations Anita Hill made against Clarence Thomas during his confirmation hearing as a Supreme Court justice.

On Tuesday, at an event honoring those who have worked to combat sexual assault on college campuses, Biden apologized again for his handling of the matter in 1991, when Hill faced accusatory questioning from a panel of white men.

To this day, I regret I couldnt come up with a way to get her the kind of hearing she deserved, given the courage she showed by reaching out to us, Biden said in New York at the Biden Courage Awards. Some pointed out that his use of the word couldnt suggested he didnt have the power to change the course of the hearing.

Felicia Sonmez contributed to this report.

Read more:

Joe Biden on Anita Hill: To this day, I regret I couldnt come up with a way to get her the kind of hearing she deserved

Prankster sentenced to 20 years for fake 911 call that led police to kill an innocent man




Some of the Facebook and Instagram ads that the House Intelligence Committee has linked to a Russian effort to disrupt the American political process during the 2016 presidential election. (Jon Elswick/AP)

When it comes to social media, government officials and the American public have grown wary of outside actors  and rightly so.

According to Attorney General William P. Barr, special counsel Robert S. Mueller IIIs report found conclusive evidence of Russian disinformation and social media campaigns designed to sow social discord, eventually with the aim of interfering with the 2016 election.

But disinformation spread by foreign governments is not the only issue stoking worries.

Efforts to safeguard against election interference have ignited concerns over First Amendment protections and censorship and brought a new wave of criticism, often pitting citizens, top lawmakers and tech giants against one other.

Evaluating the responsibility of social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, and the human and algorithmic choices they make about the voices heard, and what they are able to say, will be a vital part of maintaining American confidence in the election system heading into 2020, says Jameel Jaffer, director of the Knight First Amendment Institute.

They shape and distort public discourse through their decision-making, Jaffer said. But how do those decisions affect the integrity of the democratic process?

[Facebook ramps up effort to combat fake images, video]

President Trump has helped fuel a conservative movement that increasingly alleges it is being suppressed by social media platforms.

Tech companies maintain that they are neutral, insisting that they do not censor content on the basis of political affiliation. They do, however, review and restrict content deemed offensive, threatening or criminal  and, thats entirely legal under the First Amendment.

The Constitution limits government action. Privately owned companies have a set of rights that cannot be significantly restricted. Congress further elected to shield social platforms from liability for statements made on the site. Under the Communications Decency Act, a site is more akin to a bulletin board than to a publisher who makes editorial decisions, though it reserves the right to remove content that violates its terms and conditions. (For host sites to exist in their current form, these protections are essential.)

But the law is beginning to reconsider whether social networking sites function as modern-day equivalents of public squares.

In 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Internet and social media platforms increasingly function as quasi-public forums. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, delivering the opinion of the court, wrote: While in the past there may have been difficulty in identifying the most important places (in a spatial sense) for the exchange of views, today the answer is clear. It is cyberspace  the vast democratic forums of the Internet in general, and social media in particular.

Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) filed a lawsuit last week claiming that Twitter, two parody Twitter accounts and a Republican political consultant violated the First Amendment and defamed him. He argued in court documents that Twitter, a private company, wields the power and qualities of a government entity and should be stripped of its constitutional protections.

The ability to use Twitter is a vital part of modern citizenship.  That is because Twitter is not merely a website: it is the modern-day town square, he said in the complaint, though he failed to address the wide-ranging (and possibly catastrophic) implications of viewing tech giants as extensions of the government.

[When it comes to social media manipulation, were our own worst enemy]

So what does that mean for the companies, for trust in the platforms and for the law?

Legislative changes require Congress to agree on bipartisan policy designed to prevent foreign influence in American elections. Although proposed legislation  such as the Honest Ads Act and Disclosure Act  would put transparency in place, with a divided government, advancing either seems unlikely.

Still, in a post-2016-election universe, tech companies face increased pressure to police their networks. Disparaged with unprecedented criticism from both Democrats and Republicans, some companies have assumed the responsibility of internal policing, said Jaffer, of the Knight First Amendment Institute.

They do just enough, or promise to do just enough, to take the wind out of the sails of regulatory proposals, yet come up shy of effecting the needed change, he said. The challenge, then, becomes how to enforce an internal monitor with no external regulator.

[Republicans accused Facebook, Google and Twitter of bias. Democrats called the hearing dumb.]

Politicians across party lines will complain of bias when a platform makes a decision averse to them, even if the decision is correct. In 2020, the role of these networks will emerge as a bipartisan issue, not just a Republican problem led by Trump.

We are flying blind, said Tom Glaisyer, managing director of the Democracy Funds Public Square Program, and are unable to understand the level of misinformation and the malevolent actors that exist.

Given their scale and role in public discourse, platforms, he suggested, need to do more than ameliorate the problem. They have a burden and responsibility.

Glaisyer added, They need to think deeply about how they operate in a manner that supports our democracy.

Read more:

Facebook says it will now block white-nationalist, white-separatist posts

Facebook and Twitter testified before Congress. Conservative conspiracy theorists lurked behind them.

Justice Department warns tech companies as Facebook and Twitter defend themselves in Congress

That sophisticated, specific Russian 2016 voter targeting effort doesnt seem to exist


President Trump addresses the crowd speaking on the recent findings of the Mueller report during a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich. on Thursday. (Brittany Greeson/The Washington Post)

After President Trump vowed to take credit for shutting down the government over border wall funding during a televised Oval Office meeting with Democratic leaders in December, West Wing aides sprang into overdrive to clean up the mess.

Taking ownership of a shutdown was considered verboten in Washington, and the overwhelming consensus was that the president had screwed up.

But Trump was elated with the media coverage that followed.

This is why I was so great on the Apprentice,  he told a startled Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) during a phone call the next morning, crowing that the ratings of the meeting were great.

Ryan said he did not know such government meetings scored ratings  or that they were released within 12 hours, according to aides familiar with the call who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the private conversation. Trump told Ryan that everyone watched and that Trump was dominating the TV  and that made the meeting a success.

After more than two years in office, Trump continues to view his presidency through TV ratings and news coverage, while assessing the worthiness of his allies by how they perform during cable news hits.

Since Attorney General William P. Barr said last weekend that the special counsels investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election did not establish a conspiracy between the presidents campaign and Moscow, Trump has seemed most interested in how the findings are playing on TV.

He has reveled in the falling ratings of networks he claims unfairly covered the Russia investigation while celebrating his allies in conservative media who joined him in calling special counsel Robert S. Mueller IIIs probe a hoax all along. Trump has checked ratings daily, according to his aides, and has bragged to senators and others that Fox News is doing better than competitors such as MSNBC and CNN.

Wow, ratings for Morning Joe, which were really bad in the first place, just tanked with the release of the Mueller Report. Likewise, other shows on MSNBC and CNN have gone down by as much as 50%. Just shows, Fake News never wins! he tweeted Thursday.

Trumps numbers are exaggerated, but ratings for several of the Fox News shows supportive of the president went up in the days following the release of Barrs summary of Muellers report, while ratings for their competitors on MSNBC and CNN went down.

Lawmakers have learned that when they go on TV, oftentimes the president has been watching, and since the release of Barrs summary of Muellers report, he has been watching closely.

When he attended the weekly Senate Republican lunch on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, Trump opened his remarks by telling senators that he appreciated them defending him on TV, before he called the probe two years of bullshit.

At the private lunch, Trump immediately turned to Sen. John Neely Kennedy (R-La.) and commended him for his television appearances earlier that day, according to attendees.

He just said, I saw you on TV and you did a good job,  recalled Kennedy.

The president has spoken more to senators about what they argued on TV defending him during the special counsels probe than the actual conclusions of the case, according to people familiar with the conversations. And Trump has repeatedly told aides how the television coverage has changed, remarking favorably that the chyrons are not always about the Mueller case anymore.

Republican lawmakers have grown accustomed to Trumps predilection to obsess over TV and the coverage of him  and have adapted.

While negotiating with Democrats in December on a potential deal to reopen the government, Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said Trump did not yet know the details of his new immigration idea. He planned to first pitch the idea to Laura Ingraham  whose show he would go on later that week  and Sean Hannity and Lou Dobbs, among other TV hosts. If they were on board, Graham said, Trump would be far more likely to support such a deal. If they werent, Trump would be unlikely to support it. The deal never went anywhere. A spokesman for Graham did not respond to a request for comment.

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) had aggressively tried to pitch White House staff on association health-care plans without luck in late 2017. So instead he went on Fox News on a Friday night and made his pitch. Soon, Trump tried to call him, intrigued by the idea and endorsed the proposal after meeting with the senator, according to White House officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the conversations.

Marc Short, the presidents former congressional liaison, and now the vice presidents chief of staff, brought Trump a long list of reasons  including more military spending  to sign a spending bill last year. But Trump had watched some of his top allies torch the bill on TV for not having enough money for his border wall and complained that if the bill was so good, why werent lawmakers saying that on news programs?

Short then told Hill leadership offices that if they wanted Trump to sign the bill, they should get on TV and make the case.

Reps. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) and Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), leaders of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, are frequently called by the president  partially because they are often on TV defending him. My warriors, he calls the two men who have been influential in shaping administration policies. In a recent meeting with Republican lawmakers, Trump referred to Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) as a patriot and a great American for his fierce defenses of the president on Fox News, according to people who heard the remark.

One reason Ryan struggled with Trump was because the president would often call him early in the morning to talk about what was on Fox and Friends, and Ryan was not usually watching or versed on the particulars of the show.

On a recent Friday, Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) was on Fox News, defending his vote to uphold Trumps emergency declaration at the border. Not long after his cable news appearance, Barrasso had a voice mail from Trump, asking him to return his call. Several lawmakers said they have received calls before they could even get off set.

He thanked me for the vote, recalled Barrasso. Its an important vote [about] border security, the crisis at the border, and wed been at the White House the day before. So he called about that.

That instance wasnt a unique circumstance. Back in December, when Barrasso was on CBSs Face the Nation, Trump called him up not long after, telling the senator that he was making a good face for the party, making the case for the country and the importance of what we are doing with jobs and the economy, national security, border security.

Asked whether Trump offers critiques on his television performance, Barrasso laughed and responded: No, not to me. Maybe to others.

But a number of members know its the best way to get a call from the president.

I think other members, when theyre on, they hear from him as well, Barrasso said.




Indonesian investigators inspect the wreckage of an engine from Lion Air Flight 610 recovered from the sea at the Tanjung Priok port last November in Jakarta. (Ulet Ifansasti/Getty Images)

Three months after the Lion Air plane her husband was piloting plunged into the sea, Garima Sethi sat with senior officials at the Indonesian carrier in January and urged them  again  to ground the Boeing 737 Max 8.

It wasnt the first time Sethi had pleaded with Lion Air and Indonesian authorities to ground the model. The Oct. 29 crash near Jakarta claimed 189 lives and opened global probes into potential problems with an anti-stall system on the popular Boeing plane.

But Sethi said Lion Air officials at the time said they needed more information to take such a step. In addition, the officials told Sethi that Boeing had reassured them that the aircraft was safe.

Now, she believes a second crash of a Boeing Max jet, in Ethiopia this month, could have been prevented if the appeals by the victims families were given more weight by Lion Air and others.

We tried to do our part, but nobody heard us, said Sethi, 31.

A spokesman for Lion Air and Indonesias National Transportation Safety Committee declined to comment.

For months, Boeing repeatedly assured the world of the safety of the 737 Max, which was grounded after the March 10 Ethiopian Airlines crash minutes after takeoff from Addis Ababa. All 157 people aboard were killed.

A preliminary report from Indonesian experts released in November focused on possible flawed readings by an anti-stall feature on the 737 Max. Investigators believe the system redirected the nose of the plane downward, leaving the cockpit crew unable to override the autopilot commands.

A similar scenario is being investigated as the potential cause for the Ethiopian crash.

Sethis husband, 31-year-old Bhavye Suneja, was a methodical pilot and a stickler for preflight inspections, she said. He liked to arrive early and go through the checklist. On Oct. 29, the plane he was about to pilot had experienced mechanical issues on its previous flight.

A month after the crash, Sethi returned to a suburb of New Delhi, where she and Suneja grew up. The couple first met through a matrimonial website and began their courtship over coffee on one of Sunejas trips home from Jakarta. Their families approved of the match and they married in July 2016.

Sethi moved to Indonesia shortly after their big, fat Indian wedding, she said, smiling at the memory.



Bhavye Suneja, the pilot of the Lion Air flight that crashed in Indonesia in October, and his wife Garima Sethi. (Garima Sethi)

Suneja was outgoing and charismatic, a technology buff who could hold forth on the merits of different mobile phones and always wanted the newest camera or watch. From the time he was a boy, there was never any doubt about what he wanted to do.

He simply loved flying, Sethi said.

In Jakarta, the couple would host weekly gatherings of friends and Suneja would cook for the crowd, from biryani to pizza. His peers were drawn to him, too, for a different reason. Although he was the youngest captain in the Lion Air fleet, Sethi said his colleagues would often consult him on safety issues they were facing, prompting long discussions.

Sethi does not know whether any of those discussions involved the 737 Max 8. Last year, her husband completed the practical and computer training necessary to be certified to fly the plane, she said. He called it a very good aircraft.

After the crash, Sunejas colleagues told her that Lion Airs pilots had received no training on the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, the anti-stall software. Indonesian officials said last year that Boeings manual for the new plane did not fully describe the system or how to disable it.

Sunejas colleagues also told Sethi the disturbing story of the previous flights of her husbands plane. It had flown from Jakarta to Bali, where a malfunctioning angle-of-attack sensor was replaced. When the plane took off again to return to Jakarta, the pilots experienced problems controlling the plane and made a distress call. Only the intervention of a third pilot, who happened to be on the flight, allowed the pilots to disable the MCAS system and restore manual control.

The preliminary report released by Indonesian investigators at the end of November did not mention the third pilot. Sethi said that after investigators briefed the families with a PowerPoint presentation, she and her mother-in-law asked about the omission and urged them to tell the other families and the public, but they demurred.

Nurcahyo Utomo, an investigator at Indonesias National Transportation Safety Committee, said the presence of a third pilot on board the previous Lion Air flight was excluded from the preliminary report because investigators had not yet interviewed him or ascertained his exact role.

So we heard about it, but it was not yet confirmed, Utomo told The Washington Post.

In January, Sethi returned to Jakarta from Delhi to pack up the apartment she and Suneja had shared. During a meeting with Lion Air officials, she urged them to ground the Max planes. Media reports said that Boeing was already working on a software fix to the anti-stall system, she noted.

We suggested if it was a software glitch, why not ground it for a while? she said.

Meanwhile, families of the victims in Indonesia held protests in front of the presidential palace, urging authorities to ground the Max aircraft, along with other demands. But no action was taken until this month, when countries around the world stopped the plane from flying after the same model crashed in similar circumstances in Ethiopia.

Sethi was out with a friend in Delhi on March 10 when she heard that an Ethiopian Airlines jet had crashed. She immediately rushed home to find out more.

It was altogether the same story, she said. I dont have any words.

She was distressed to learn that the Ethiopian Airlines jet that crashed had been delivered by Boeing in mid-November, after the Lion Air disaster.

They were playing with lives, she said.

A chartered accountant by profession, Sethi returned in November to her parents home, a bungalow on a quiet street in a suburb of Delhi. Now her days involve gathering information  about sensors, simulators, training manuals.

Im just looking for a type of justice, she said quietly. Whoever was at fault should claim their mistakes. Some of the families of Lion Air victims have filed lawsuits against Boeing, but Sethi said she has not decided whether to pursue a legal claim.

On Sethis left hand is a small ring Suneja bought for her in Jakarta, a swirl of gold with a hole at the center that resembles an eye. She said she intends to remember him as a passionate flier and a good human being.

Mahtani reported from Hong Kong. Stanley Widianto in Jakarta contributed to this report.

Read more

Across the globe, a question of air safety becomes a question of American leadership

Boeing, initially defensive, now humbled by 737 Max crisis

More families sue Boeing over Lion Air crash

Todays coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news


Five years ago, Hamza Parvez was a pudgy Islamic State recruit from West London known for his unusual social media posts about kittens, KFC and what passed for fast food in the so-called caliphate.

But as the Islamic States territory receded, so did his presence online.

For years, the fate of Abu Hamza al-Britani, as he was known, was unclear. But the militant, now 26, ended up alive and held in a prison in northern Syria after surrendering to Kurdish-led forces outside the groups final stronghold in Baghouz earlier this month.

His previous posts on Twitter, Instagram and Ask.fm in the early days of the caliphate revealed a duality not often seen in the social media traffic from the Islamic State.

He toted a weapon and appeared  at least in his Internet posts  to buy into the militants embrace of violence and anti-Western diatribes. But he also had an improbable pining for Western junk food, cute kittens and a desire to settle down somewhere, marry and have kids.

One purported photo of Parvez  who one British tabloid dubbed Hungry Hamza for his frequent posts about food  shows him bearded, armed and eating ice cream in the Iraqi city of Mosul, which was once held by the Islamic State.



London-born Hamza Parvez, 26, was known for his social media posts from the caliphate after joining the Islamic State in 2014. For years, his fate was unknown. But he is alive and being held in a prison in northern Syria, after surrendering to Kurdish-led forces outside the groups final stronghold earlier this month. (Erin Cunningham/The Washington Post)

But he also released threatening videos urging British Muslims to abandon their lives and join the fight, in what he called the golden era of jihad.

Parvez is just one of many former Islamic State fighters and supporters now in custody and claiming contrition as their fate hangs in the balance.

Regret is not even the word. If there was a stronger word, I would use it, Parvez, appearing gaunt and clad in loosefitting prison garb, said of his decision to join the Islamic State five years ago.

He spoke to The Washington Post in an interview at the prison in northern Syria, in the presence of armed guards.

Parvez said he lost 30 kilograms (66 pounds) during his five years in the caliphate.



Shamima Begum, a young British woman who went to Syria to join the Islamic State group and now wants to return to Britain. (Metropolitan Police/AP)

What happened was completely horrific, he said of the groups tactics. I dont think we should ever allow anything or anyone to take Islam as a religion and for them to manipulate it . . . and to shape it the way that they shaped it.

But such apparent remorse is unlikely to sway Britains government, which says it will not repatriate British nationals who traveled to join the Islamic State. Thousands of foreigners and their children remain detained in Al-Hol camp in northern Syria, having fled the fighting in Baghouz.

Few Western governments have said they will take back their citizens who flocked to territory once controlled by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The group is accused of carrying out horrific atrocities across both countries, including mass executions, sexual slavery and widespread destruction of ancient sites and artifacts.

[She was waging e-jihad with Islamic State hackers]

Last month, Britain stripped London-born teenager, Shamima Begum, of her British citizenship after she emerged from the caliphates final scrap of territory in Baghouz. She is now languishing in a camp in northern Syria, her future uncertain.

Parvez, similarly, was from an affluent neighborhood in West London, where he attended Holland Park School, according to British media reports. He was the first British citizen known to be fighting with the Islamic State in Iraq. He lived both in Raqqa, the groups de facto capital in Syria, and in Iraqs Mosul.

In previous posts, he published photos of a ginger kitten he adopted in the caliphate and named Anbar after Iraqs largest province. At the time, his family expressed shock that he had traveled to Syria to fight for the group.

In the interview Saturday, Parvez claimed to have joined the caliphate to help build the state as a civilian  despite his allegiance to the groups violent ideology.

He says that he worked as a caretaker of mosques under Islamic State control, but soon became disillusioned with the Islamic States brutal codes.

Coming in, you very quickly find out its not how its [portrayed], he said of the utopian version Islamic State members promoted online.

The things we found out, we found out the hard way, he said, and claimed that his superiors forced him and others to fight on the front lines.

The big fish of the Islamic State, he said, stole the money and made their way out a very long time ago.

He referred to the civilians living in Baghouz, an encampment of tents that made up the Islamist militants last stand, as the crumbs of ISIS, using a common acronym for the Islamic State.

There was a complete collapse of social and economic rule. People referred to it as Dar al-Kuffar, he said, an Arabic term denoting land ruled by nonbelievers.

There was food, but it was only or the big fish of the Islamic State. I held children in my hands who were dying because there was no food for the remaining civilians, he said.

Then, he added: You don't have to tell me what city I'm in, but can I ask: Is there a McDonald's here?

Read more

The caliphate is no more. But the Islamic State isnt finished yet.

France repatriates 5 children of militants who joined the Islamic State

How the Islamic State is seeding a future insurgency

Todays coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news


If youre confused about Brexit, you certainly arent alone. Britains path toward leaving the European Union is complicated and confounding  full of forks, U-turns and more than a few dead ends. Even seasoned Brexit watchers have been left at a loss for words.

British Prime Minister Theresa May might try for the fourth time to get parliamentary support for the withdrawal deal she negotiated with E.U. representatives. On March 29, lawmakers rejected her stripped-down deal by 58 votes, marking the third time shes failed to convince the British Parliament to move forward with a plan for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union.

After the latest failed vote, E.U. leaders quickly scheduled a new round of talks for April 10 in Brussels.

Britain is now in crisis mode as it inches closer toward the possibility of an economic earthquake  a no-deal withdrawal. As my colleagues in Britain wrote after the third vote failed, Britain now has until April 12 to propose a new way forward, or crash out of the bloc without a deal, or beg for a long extension.

But to understand how the Brits got here and whats at stake, we need to back up a bit.

Q: What is Brexit?

A: May has said, Brexit means Brexit. But what that means is that Britain plans to leave the E.U., gaining the ability to control its borders and make its own trade deals  or, as some people see at it, losing the automatic free-movement and free-trade rights that come with membership.

Q: Why is Britain leaving the E. U.?

A: Basically, because Brits voted for it, 52 to 48 percent, in a referendum on June 23, 2016. Concerns about immigration and sovereignty were the top reasons people voted to leave.

Q: Who voted for Brexit?

A: England and Wales voted to leave, while Scotland and Northern Ireland wanted to remain. London was strongly against. The vote divided both main political parties: Conservatives and Labour. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn voted to remain, though he is lukewarm on the E.U. and has regularly criticized it as a capitalist club. May, a Conservative, also voted to remain  though she asserts, repeatedly, that she is committed to delivering on the referendum result. Among the most notable Brexiteers are Boris Johnson, Mays former foreign secretary, and Jacob Rees-Mogg, another Conservative.

Q: So when does Brexit happen?

A: The original departure date was supposed to be March 29. But the British Parliament hasnt yet agreed on how to leave. It has now rejected Mays withdrawal plan three times. Last week, E.U. leaders granted a short extension. If British lawmakers had approved Mays deal this week, they would have left E.U. by May 22. Now they must plan an alternative by April 12 or leave without any transition provisions or protections that evening.

Q: Why does Parliament need to approve Brexit, after there was already a referendum?

A: The referendum wasnt legally binding, and it asked people only if they wanted in or out of the E.U.  not how they should leave. Because Britain is a parliamentary democracy, meaning Parliament is sovereign, it was agreed after a lengthy legal debate that Parliament would get a meaningful vote on the deal  a decision that significantly complicated Mays negotiations.

Q: Whats in her withdrawal deal?

A: The 585-page deal lays out things such as a timetable for a transition period, what happens to E.U. nationals living in Britain and the amount of money Britain has to pay the E.U. It doesnt get into anything about trade deals or other aspects of the future relationship between Britain and the E.U. Thats saved for a whole separate set of negotiations, to the chagrin of all those with Brexit fatigue.

Q: Why dont people like Mays deal?

A: Hardcore Brexiteers think she has made too many concessions to Europe. They want a more decisive split. Those who are more pro-Europe argue that the deal risks economic damage to Britain without sufficient benefits.

Q: Whats the issue with the Irish border?

A: An open border on the island of Ireland has helped to resolve decades of conflict  allowing unionists in Northern Ireland to feel securely part of the United Kingdom while republicans in the north can feel connected to the Republic of Ireland in the south. But that open border has been possible only because the E.U.s customs union and single market avoid the need for border checks. Once Northern Ireland leaves the E.U., along with the rest of the United Kingdom, there will have to be a different way to preserve an open border and maintain peace. Thats where the backstop comes in.

Q: Whats the backstop?

A: Its an insurance policy to guarantee an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Until a future trade deal somehow dispenses with the need for border checks, or until technology is developed that does the job of border agents and achieves an invisible border, the backstop would require the United Kingdom to remain in the E.U. customs union and parts of the single market. Thats controversial in part because the U.K. would be subject to E.U. rules even after losing its say over them.

Q: Could Brexit be stopped?

A: Theoretically, yes. The E.U.s highest court ruled last year that Britain could unilaterally reverse its decision to leave. A petition to cancel Brexit has garnered more than 5 million signatures, becoming the most popular petition ever hosted on Parliaments website. Those numbers triggered a Parliamentary debate for Apr. 1. But many lawmakers would be wary of supporting a complete reversal, and, anyway, theyre several steps away from that happening.



People attend the 'Put it to the People' march in London on March 23. (Neil Hall/REX)

Q: Couldnt Britain just hold a second referendum?

A: Since the Brexit vote in 2016, the prospect of a second referendum has gone from something barely imaginable to something remotely possible. The idea has considerable public support. About a million people demonstrated in London in favor of a peoples vote on March 23. But critics argue that a second referendum would be deeply damaging to democracy and a betrayal of those who chose to leave. It could also unleash further political chaos.

Q: Have people changed their minds on Brexit?

A: Certainly some have. But many people feel even more strongly now about the stance they took and have begun to define themselves as leavers or remainers. Polls suggest that a slight majority of Brits would now opt to remain in the E.U., but that swing is partly the result of changing demographics. Younger people are overwhelmingly pro-remain, and teens who couldnt vote in 2016 are now of voting age. Meanwhile, the majority of voters 65 and older voted to leave  and some of them have since died.

Q: Whats the worst-case scenario for Brexit?

A: Most economists would say a no-deal Brexit, a scenario in which Britain leaves without an agreement with the E.U. and without the two-year transition period that comes with it. Most likely Britain would revert to World Trade Organization trade rules at its borders. But the sudden break could cause major disruptions to trade and travel. The International Monetary Fund projected that up to 8 percent of Britains gross domestic product could be lost.

Q: Yikes. Are people prepared for that?

A: Britain and other E.U. countries have put together elaborate and costly contingency plans. Brits have also been hoarding toilet paper and chocolate just in case.

Q: How likely is a no-deal Brexit?

A: Its definitely possible. One study that came out before May made her deal last year estimated that there were five possible scenarios for Brexit. All but one resulted in no deal.

Q: Does the E.U. want a no-deal for Britain?

A: European leaders have voiced real concerns about a no-deal Brexit. It could potentially disrupt their own agreements, too. But the E.U. is also worried about other countries trying to leave, so it is driving a hard bargain with Britain and offering few concessions.

Q: Have E.U. leaders tried to help May at all?

A: To a degree, yes. In a letter published Jan. 14, European Council President Donald Tusk and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker explained that they did not want the Irish backstop to come into force, describing it as a suboptimal trading arrangement for both sides.

However, they also said there was little room for more negotiations, writing: We are not in a position to agree to anything that changes or is inconsistent with the Withdrawal Agreement. And after the deal was voted down a second time, Barnier basically said that the E.U. had done what it could do.

Letter from President @JunckerEU and @eucopresident Tusk on behalf of the two EU Institutions to Prime Minister @theresa_may providing clarifications to the #Brexit Withdrawal Agreement and Political Declaration. pic.twitter.com/y985bdEgdD  European Commission  (@EU_Commission) January 14, 2019

Q: Do any British politicians have a better idea?

A: Others claim to. Corbyn says he could solve the Irish border problem without a backstop, for example, and avoid a no-deal Brexit. But we probably wont find out how these ideas work in practice unless May loses her job.

Q: What would happen then?

A: \_()_/

Q: I have more questions that were not answered here.

A: We all do. Send them to us, and well try to answer them in an update.

Karla Adam and William Booth in London and Marisa Bellack, Emily Tamkin and Siobhn OGrady in Washington contributed to this report.


For the past several years, NATO ally Turkey has churned with political turmoil, stemming from the war next door in Syria, the fallout from a violent coup attempt and a series of hard-fought elections that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has used to accumulate power and burnish his tough-guy image.

Sundays vote for local offices throughout the country, the Trump administration hopes, will be followed by a period of domestic calm that will allow progress in resolving major bilateral conflicts that have been stalled for months.

One problem is Turkeys purchase of a top-line Russian missile defense system, the S-400, that the United States and NATO have said is incompatible with the alliance and that is likely to result in the cancellation of the pending sale of 100 U.S. F-35 fighter jets to Ankara. Erdogan insists the Russian deal will go forward, and delivery is scheduled to begin this summer.

Were trying to get to the end of the elections, because one could imagine . . . a whole lot of things to talk about, said a senior administration official, one of several who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss planning and diplomatic issues.

But time is running out.

U.S. plans to withdraw troops from Syria have been complicated by Turkish threats to launch a cross-border offensive against tens of thousands of Syrian Kurdish fighters who have been American allies in the campaign against the Islamic State. Erdogan considers them terrorists; the administration has vowed to protect them.

[The Islamic State is seeding a new insurgency]

President Trump backtracked on his December announcement that all 2,000 U.S. service members in Syria were leaving immediately and agreed last month that 200 could stay in the northeastern region from which the Islamic State has been routed. A U.S. official said that plans are for the withdrawal, which has not started, to hover at a plateau of about 1,000 troops for an undetermined period of time, before eventually falling to 200.

About 200 additional troops are expected to remain in the south, at a garrison along Syrias border with Jordan.

But there were indications of continued confusion and uncertainty, even within the military, about the path ahead in Syria. A spokesman for the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr.  who earlier this month called inaccurate a Wall Street Journal report saying that the United States was planning to keep a total of 1,000 troops in Syria  said that there has been no change to the plan announced in February.

We continue to implement the Presidents direction to draw down U.S. forces to a residual presence in a deliberate and coordinated manner, Col. Patrick Ryder said in an email. To ensure campaign continuity, were continuing to work closely with our allies and partners in the region to develop and refine the support required for the stabilization phase of the counter-Islamic State campaign in Syria. This work is on-going and, for operational security reasons, we will not discuss specific U.S. troop numbers or drawdown timelines, Ryder said.

Turkey remains a major factor in the indecision. Britain and France, with their own troops on the ground in Syria, have said they will not stay if the United States withdraws. But U.S. efforts to develop a plan have been on hold while the administration negotiates with Turkey.

All agree that some kind of counterterrorism force needs to remain to root out thousands of disbursed militants and ensure they do not regroup. Trump has also agreed with Erdogan, however, that a militarily protected safe zone will be established in Syria along the Turkish border to prevent Kurdish incursions and has said an international force will undertake the task.

Neither the Pentagon nor Britain or France are interested in being part of such a force, and all three have legal prohibitions on deploying their troops in Syria for anything other than fighting the Islamic State.

Another senior U.S. official said an international force to secure the zone is not in the cards. Instead, the latest idea is that Kurdish fighters from the Peoples Protection Units, or YPG  which make up the bulk of the U.S. partner forces on the ground in Syria, called the Syrian Democratic Forces  would withdraw from the border.

The issue of who, beyond locals, would secure and patrol a 20-mile-wide zone is not worked out, this official said.

No one, least of all Turkey, has yet agreed to this concept. Kurdish leaders who are part of the SDF have said they are willing to open a dialogue with the Syrian government of President Bashar al-Assad and with Russia, his main backer, about joining forces.

Despite the optimism of some, other U.S. officials fear the U.S.-Turkey relationship might get worse after Sundays elections. Conversations about the safe zone have made little headway, and with no agreement, Turkey could take unilateral action.

No matter what happens, the elections are unlikely to dent Erdogans hold on power. But he has campaigned relentlessly for his partys candidates ahead of a poll that many see as a referendum on his leadership, and especially his management of the economy, which has slipped into recession for the first time in a decade after years of steady growth.

As he has crisscrossed the country to rally core supporters, Erdogan has used populist and sometimes incendiary rhetoric at rallies, including repeatedly replaying footage of the recent massacre at two New Zealand mosques in an apparent attempt to appeal to conservative Muslim voters.

Although Turkey manufactures key components of the F-35 fighters, Congress has threatened to cancel its planned purchase of 100 of the planes if it goes ahead with the Russian air-defense deal. NATO and the United States have said the co-location of the two in Turkey would be an intolerable security risk.

While Turkey says its defense purchases are a sovereign choice, one senior administration official said, they also have made a sovereign choice many years ago to be part of the West and part of the . . . NATO alliance.

Erdogan and other Turkish officials have left little uncertainty about their plans to take delivery of the Russian system and have dismissed U.S. offers to sell Turkey a Patriot air defense system as too little, too late.

We have agreed with Russia in the end and signed an agreement, Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told reporters Friday after meeting with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, according to Reuters. This agreement is a done deal.

Fahim reported from Istanbul. Missy Ryan in Washington contributed to this report.




Jakelin Caal Maquin, 7, died of an infection that led to organ failure, according to an autopsy report. Her family held her funeral, above, in Guatemala in December. (Johan Ordonez/AFP/Getty Images)

A 7-year-old Guatemalan girl who collapsed in Border Patrol custody in December  one of two child deaths that month  died of a bacterial infection that spread to her bloodstream and caused multiple organ failure, according to an autopsy report released Friday.

The El Paso County Medical Examiners office concluded after a nearly four-month investigation that Jakelin Caal Maquin died of Streptococcal sepsis, which spread to her liver, lungs and other organs.

The 18-page report by Mario A. Rascon, the medical examiner, described a rapidly progressive infection, with substantial clinical deterioration.

The findings add to U.S. Customs and Border Protections initial reports that Jakelin succumbed to dehydration, shock and liver failure after she and her father were apprehended illegally crossing from Mexico into the United States on Dec. 6. They were held for several hours in federal custody, where the young girl vomited, had a fever and experienced difficulty breathing. She was taken to an El Paso hospital, where she died Dec. 8.

[U.S. has hit breaking point at border amid immigration surge, Customs and Border Protection chief says]

The report did not resolve disputes over whether Jakelin was taken to the hospital for treatment quickly enough and whether she was given sufficient water after she and her father crossed into a remote New Mexico outpost, part of a group of more than 160 migrants. About two weeks later, Felipe Gomez Alonzo, 8, also from Guatemala, died after several days in federal custody. His death is under investigation in New Mexico, an official said.

While the report sheds some light on Jakelins cause of death, it still leaves many questions that require further review, lawyers for Jakelins family said Friday. The reports findings suggest Jakelins chances of surviving would have been improved with earlier medical intervention. As we requested back in December of last year, the family seeks a thorough independent investigation of this matter to learn why medical intervention was delayed.

The deaths of the children caused heightened scrutiny of detention conditions and spurred officials to send medical teams and helicopters to screen arriving families. The deaths also raised concerns about massive groups of Central American families surrendering at the southern border.



Relatives and family friends carry Jakelins coffin after her funeral. (Johan Ordonez/AFP/Getty Images)

Colleen Kraft, the immediate past president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, renewed calls for the customs agency to allow trained pediatricians to screen children so they can identify urgent medical conditions as the children arrive.

Its quite possible that she couldve been showing some of the early signs of shock and that was missed, Kraft said.

Tekandi Paniagua, Guatemalas consul in Del Rio, Tex., said Jakelins father, who was released, remains in the United States awaiting a court hearing.

The matter is in the lawyers hands, Paniagua said.

This week, CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan called for more resources at the border. He said the law enforcement agency is overwhelmed because of the volume of migrants it is encountering, including families with infants, some of whom are suffering from serious medical issues such, including fevers and seizure disorders.

We are doing everything we can to simply avoid a tragedy in a CBP facility, McAleenan said. But with these numbers, with the types of illnesses were seeing at the border, I fear that its just a matter of time.

Members of Congress and advocates say they are concerned the Trump administration is failing to provide adequate care.

Rep. Raul Ruiz (D-Calif.), who said he is working on legislation to improve care, called the conditions where Jakelin was held woefully insufficient.

Sacchetti reported from Washington. Moore is a freelance journalist based in Texas.


A poster containing a photo of William "Rick" Singer was displayed during a news conference on March 12 in Boston as charges in a college admissions bribery scandal were announced. (Steven Senne/AP)

For Noah Coates, the SAT and ACT were grueling, multiday marathons. The Baltimore County student took each exam in a private room, with twice the normal time, because he has dyslexia and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. As he recalled, he still couldnt finish.

But he secured his goal: scores that got him into Stevenson University in Maryland, where the 21-year-old plans to graduate in May with a bachelors degree in computer system development.

But after revelations this month about cheating and bribery in college admissions, Coates fears a blowback that could curtail accommodations for students with special needs on high-stakes exams.

I was disappointed to see that someone was trying to exploit something that was made to help other people who need it, Coates said. He likened the alleged testing cheats to drivers who claim disability parking spots without permits. Its frustrating and annoying. Just because its open, doesnt mean you should take it.

The federal investigation dubbed Operation Varsity Blues uncovered elaborate plots to get children of rich parents into prominent schools such as Georgetown, Yale and Stanford universities and the University of Southern California.

One tactic involved bribing coaches to designate applicants as recruited athletes even though they possessed little or no intercollegiate sports potential. Then there was the part of the alleged scheme that troubles students who need extra time on college admissions exams: Special accommodations on the ACT and SAT were illegitimately secured to provide cover for cheating at compromised testing sites in Houston and West Hollywood.

[Three spots: Alleged bribery of tennis coach stings Georgetown admissions]

Fifty people were charged in the conspiracy, including a former senior athletic official, nine current and former coaches and 33 parents. No students were charged. Twelve defendants entered not guilty pleas Monday in federal court in Boston, and 15 parents appeared in court Friday. The mastermind, admission consultant William Rick Singer of Newport Beach, Calif., pleaded guilty March 12 to racketeering conspiracy and other crimes and is cooperating with investigators.

Some educators, stunned by the scandal, said it underscored that parents and students pay far too much attention to standardized test scores.

[A Trojan horse: USC was most frequent target in alleged admissions scheme]

Im a big believer that a persons fate should not be determined by a morning sitting for an exam, said Michael M. Crow, president of Arizona State University. Class work, he said, matters far more. You cant cheat for your high school grade-point average over four years.

Brazen test cheating is what the FBI sought to document, with purported learning disabilities central to the scheme. Singer  identified in an affidavit as Cooperating Witness 1  explained the scam to a father in a wiretapped telephone conversation. The excerpt suggests that Singer had connections to a psychologist who provides tests for learning disabilities, and it underscores how he manipulated testing conditions at the locations in Texas and California.

We need to get your daughter tested for a learning difference, the affidavit quotes Witness 1 (Singer) as saying. Heres why. If she gets tested for a learning difference, and lets say its my person that does it, or whoever you want to do it, I need that person to get her 100 percent extended time over multiple days. So what that means is, well have to show that theres some discrepancies in her learning, which theres gotta be anyways. And if she gets 100 percent . . . then, I own two schools. I can have her test at one of my schools, and I can guarantee her a score.

If its ACT, I can guarantee her a score in the, in the 30s. And if its the SAT, I can guarantee her a score in the 1400s. Now, all of a sudden, her test score does not become an issue with all the colleges. Singer said the price for all this was $75,000.

The affidavit recounts several episodes in which an expert took the admission test in place of a given student or changed an answer sheet to help secure a desired score. The maximum on the ACT is 36; on the SAT, it is 1600.

The College Board, which owns the SAT, and the ACT said the investigation shows cheaters will be held accountable. Officials with the two nonprofit testing agencies said they stand by their processes for handling requests for special accommodations.

The individuals were caught, ACT spokesman Ed Colby said. The system worked.

Publicly available data on the use of testing accommodations is limited. In the 2017 graduating class, the ACT reported, more than 102,000 students took the test with extended time. That was about 5 percent of all test takers. Normally, the test runs two hours and 55 minutes, not counting breaks or the optional essay-writing section.

Extensions vary. Some students get 50 percent more time; others get even more, over multiple days.

Those with extended time scored, on average, 18.7 on the 36-point scale. Those who took it on the standard clock scored an average of 21.1.

The most recent public data from the College Board shows that about 39,600 students in the 2014 graduating class  2 percent of the total  took the SAT under nonstandard conditions. That term, the College Board said, reflected those who received an accommodation. Their scores averaged 1423 on the SATs old 2400-point scale. The average that year for all test takers was 1497.

The College Board says the number of people who take the SAT with accommodations fluctuates from year to year, but the share is generally about 4 percent.

Advocates want to ensure continued access. We have to remain vigilant, said Lindsay E. Jones, president and chief executive of the National Center for Learning Disabilities, which is based in Washington. Too often, she said, students with disabilities face stigma when they seek help. Theres a big myth out there, she said, that anyone with accommodations has an unfair advantage.

The practice of granting accommodations goes back decades. Some visually impaired students use test booklets in Braille or large type. Some with certain medical conditions, disorders or disabilities are allowed to stand, walk or pace during the test, or get extra breaks. Some are assisted by readers or scribes.

The College Board says that more than 200,000 students a year seek accommodations on the SAT or other tests, including the PSAT and Advanced Placement exams. The majority of requests are granted, but the College Board declined to be more precise.

The ACT said virtually all students granted accommodations have a history of using them on tests in school. There are exceptions, the ACT said, but they are rare.

Both testing organizations have long been on guard for potential abuse of requests for extended time.

A key policy shift occurred in 2003. Previously, the testing agencies sent scores to colleges with a notation if special conditions had been granted. But advocates for the disabled said that was unfair. Since 2003, SAT and ACT scores have been sent without any accommodation flags.

Some critics called that change an invitation to abuse. Singer, in the affidavit, is quoted as telling a client all the wealthy families have figured out the edge of extended time. The playing field is not fair, he said.

William Stixrud, a clinical neuropsychologist in Silver Spring, Md., who tests children for issues that affect learning, said he occasionally hears of college admission consultants who advise clients to seek extra time so students can get better test scores. Stixrud said he emphasizes to parents there are no guarantees about a diagnosis or whether it will yield approval of accommodations on the tests. Its rare that somebody would approach me and want an unfair advantage for their kids, he said.

Savannah Trevio-Casias, 23, who is majoring in psychology at Arizona State, said she has dyscalculia, a math-related disability, that was first diagnosed in sixth grade. She was able to obtain extra time on the SAT and take the exam in a separate room with minimal distractions. She has continued to use accommodations in college when necessary.

The cheating scandal outrages her. She fears it will fuel skepticism of students like her who must navigate school with invisible disabilities.

For students like me, who actually do have a documented disability, she said, it makes it so much harder for us to get accommodations and have our teachers and professors actually believe us.

Read more:

A Trojan horse: USC was the most frequent target in alleged admissions scheme

Three spots: Alleged bribery of tennis coach stings Georgetown admissions

From master coach to a bribery probe: A college consultant who went off the rails

Local newsletters: Local headlines (8 a.m.) | Afternoon Buzz (4 p.m.)

Like PostLocal on Facebook | Follow @postlocal on Twitter | Latest local news


President Trump signed a new order Friday granting permission for the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, marking the White Houses latest effort to jump-start one of the most controversial infrastructure proposals in recent U.S. history.

Trumps presidential permit gives TransCanada, the Calgary-based firm behind the project, permission to construct, connect, operate and maintain the pipeline in U.S. territory. The order appears aimed at addressing a ruling from a federal court judge in Montana last fall, who halted the project after finding the Trump administration had inadequately considered the environmental impact of the project before allowing it to move forward.

That ruling faulted the State Department for not doing a sufficient review as required under the National Environmental Policy Act. But because that law applies to agency actions, as opposed to those by the White House, the president may be able to sidestep the issue by granting the permit himself rather than delegating the cross-border permit to the secretary of state.

Christopher Guith, acting president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Global Energy Institute, praised Fridays decision to grant a new permit. Were pleased to see action that will help clear the way for development of the Keystone XL pipeline, Guith said in a statement. The Keystone XL pipeline is one of the most studied pieces of infrastructure in American history.

But environmental advocates were quick to criticize Trumps latest effort to push the project forward.

The Keystone XL tar sands pipeline was a bad idea from day one and it remains a terrible idea, said Anthony Swift, director of the Natural Resources Defense Councils Canada project. If built, it would threaten our land, our drinking water, and our communities from Montana and Nebraska to the Gulf Coast. And it would drive dangerous climate change.

Trumps move to approve the pipeline does not address a separate legal hurdle that the project faces in Nebraska, where the state Supreme Court is considering a challenge landowners have brought against the pipeline route approved by the Nebraska Public Utilities Commission.

Last falls federal court decision was a rebuke to Trump, who had vowed to support the pipeline and who signed an executive order days into his presidency restarting the project after the Obama administration had halted it over environmental concerns.

U.S. District Judge Brian Morris, in Montana, issued a 54-page ruling that found the State Department had simply discarded prior factual findings related to climate change from the Obama administration in its zeal to further Trumps goal of letting the pipeline move forward. In doing so, the administration ran afoul of the Administrative Procedure Act, which requires reasoned explanations for government decisions, particularly when they represent reversals of well-studied actions.

"An agency cannot simply disregard contrary or inconvenient factual determinations that it made in the past, any more than it can ignore inconvenient facts in the present, Morris wrote, citing case law.

The court decision did not permanently block a federal permit for Keystone XL. But it required the administration to conduct a more complete review of potential adverse impacts related to climate change, cultural resources and endangered species, as well as reevaluate the effect of current oil prices on the viability of the pipeline. The court basically ordered a do-over.

At the time, Trump called the ruling a political decision.

"I think its a disgrace, he told reporters, adding the pipeline could generate thousands of jobs. I approved it; its ready to start.

TransCanada also said at the time it had no plans to abandon the project. We have received the judges ruling and continue to review it, company spokesman Terry Cunha said in a statement. We remain committed to building this important energy infrastructure project.

President Trump has been clear that he wants to create jobs and advance U.S. energy security and the Keystone XL pipeline does both of those things, Russ Girling, TransCanadas president and chief executive, said in a statement Friday. We thank President Trump for his leadership and steadfast support to enable the advancement of this critical energy infrastructure project for North America.

The decade-long saga over the Keystone XL pipeline, which would stretch nearly 1,200 miles from Hardisty, Alberta, to Steele City, Neb., has been full of legal twists. Envisioned in 2008 as a way to connect Canadas oil sands fields with Gulf Coast refineries, the project has died and been resurrected more than once.

Native American tribes and Oklahoma oil magnates have weighed in. Opponents chained themselves to a truck carrying pipe and were arrested. Residents of Nebraska and other states fought the company over land rights. Environmental advocates have objected over concerns about the effects on wildlife.

The Keystone XL (the initials stand for export limited), which aims to extend the firms existing Keystone pipeline, would transport as much as 830,000 barrels of crude oil per day through a 36-inch pipe from Alberta, Canada, and Montana to Oklahoma and the Gulf Coast. In the United States, the pipeline would stretch 875 miles through Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska.

The Obama administration approved the southern leg of the pipeline that began operations in January 2014, easing a bottleneck between Cushing, Okla., and refineries on Texass Gulf Coast.

The project has met sustained opposition from environmental advocacy groups that argue it would be especially damaging to the climate because it would mean extracting thick, low-quality oil from Canadas oil sands, with tree-cutting and energy consumption as part of the process.

In 2015, on the eve of the international climate talks in Paris, the Obama administration announced it was halting construction on the remainder of the pipeline, arguing approval would compromise Americas effort to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. The United States, President Barack Obama said, was now a global leader in pressing for climate action. And frankly, approving this project would have undercut that global leadership, he said.

The decision to deny the pipeline permit came after the completion of a long-awaited final environmental impact statement  11 volumes of analysis released in 2014.




South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg stands outside his hotel before a fundraising event in West Hollywood on March 14. (Allison Zaucha for The Washington Post)

A gay mayor from Vice President Pences home state who wrote a Harvard thesis on the Puritans, Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg wants his party to embrace religion but not at the expense of excluding others.

In an interview Wednesday about his faith, Buttigieg said the Democratic Party has sometimes become distant from religion, but its a side effect of something healthy because of its commitment to the separation of church and state, and the belief that it speaks for people of any faith and of no faith equally.

I think theres an opportunity hopefully for religion to be not so much used as a cudgel but invoked as a way of calling us to higher values, he said.

Mayor of South Bend, Ind., Buttigieg (pronounced Buddha-judge, his husband says) recently went from political obscurity to matching former congressman Beto ORourke and Sen. Amy Klobuchar with 6 percent support in an Iowa poll released this week by the progressive group Focus on Rural America.

Mayor of the home to the University of Notre Dame, one of the most prominent Catholic schools in the country and where his parents were professors, the 37-year-old Episcopalian did not grow up in a religious home. His interest in faith emerged in Catholic high school, when he was drawn to Catholic theology, and grew while he was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford University.

Now Buttigieg wants a less dogmatic religious left to counter the religious right, an unofficial coalition of religious conservatives that for decades has helped get mostly Republicans into office.

I think its unfortunate [the Democratic Party] has lost touch with a religious tradition that I think can help explain and relate our values, he said. At least in my interpretation, it helps to root [in religion] a lot of what it is we do believe in, when it comes to protecting the sick and the stranger and the poor, as well as skepticism of the wealthy and the powerful and the established.

He thinks President Trump has found favor among many white evangelicals and white Catholics because of his opposition to abortion, he said. But Buttigieg said he believes the president is behaving in bad faith and said theres no evidence that he doesnt favor abortion rights deep down.

I do think its strange, though, knowing that no matter where you are politically, the gospel is so much about inclusion and decency and humility and care for the least among us, that a wealthy, powerful, chest-thumping, self-oriented, philandering figure like this can have any credibility at all among religious people, he said.

The alignment of Pence, the former governor of his home state, with Trump can only be explained in one of two ways, he said.

Either he abandoned his religious principles in order to be part of this campaign and administration, he said. Or he has some very strange sense of destiny, that God somehow wants this in order to get somewhere better, which I think does very little credit to God, but its the only other possible explanation.

Buttigieg spoke about Pence using a story about the danger of Pharisees and hypocrites from the Bible.

When you see someone who has such a dogmatic take on faith and bring it into public life, being willing to attach themselves to this administration for the purposes of gaining power, he said. It is alarmingly resonant with some New Testament themes, and not in a good way.

The vice presidents office did not respond to a request for comment.

Faith and sexuality

Buttigieg, who is married to another man, wrestled with his public identity as a gay man during a decade when his own church and state battled over same-sex marriage under the national spotlight.

Marie Griffith, a historian at Washington University in St. Louis who writes about religion and sex, said she finds it compelling that his sexuality and his politics havent doomed him in a conservative religious environment in Indiana.

He clearly articulated a progressive Christian faith better than just about any other white man I can think of, she said. She later said that she meant to describe white male candidates.

Buttigieg was married last year in a denomination that only in the past decade began performing same-sex marriages. The marriage debate was hovering over the Episcopal church and over his diocese, he said, around 2008, when he moved back to South Bend.

Thankfully, it had been settled as far as our diocese was concerned by the time I got married, because I wanted to be married in the church, and Im glad we were able to do that, he said.

Growing up, he said, Buttigieg found tensions between faith and sexuality. I found it difficult to reconcile with organized religion, he said.

Now, he said, he understands why people believe the Christian faith leads them to oppose same-sex marriage, but hopes they encounter scripture interpreted a different way.

I hope that teachings about inclusion and love win out over what I personally consider to be a handful of scriptures that reflect the moral expectations of the era in which they were recorded, he said.

Buttigieg decided to come out to his city in a newspaper column after a controversy in Indiana over the states Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015, which raised questions about the right to freedom of religion and LGBT rights.

Our right to practice our faith freely is respected up to the point where doing so involves harming others, he said. One of the problems with RFRA was it authorized harming others so long as you remembered to use your religion as an excuse.

Buttigieg stands out in the Democratic field because, in most ways, he doesnt actually stand out, said Kristin Du Mez, a historian at Calvin College who studies religion and politics.

Hes white, hes Christian, hes clean-cut, hes a Midwesterner, a mayor of a Rust Belt city. But then hes also gay, she said. Hes just talking in a matter-of-fact way about his husband, his family, his values. So it seems less radical in some ways, and more normal. Which is probably exactly what the Democratic Party needs right now.

The path to church

Buttigieg didnt have a Road to Damascus moment, he said, referring to the Apostle Pauls sudden conversion in the Bible. Growing up, Buttigiegs parents were always interested in Christianity but not regular churchgoers.

His father was in seminary to become a Jesuit in the 1960s, but he eventually emerged as a secular intellectual, and his mother was attached to the Episcopal faith but didnt go to many services.



Mayor Pete Buttigieg greets a man at the Salvation Army on Dec. 18, 2018, in South Bend, Ind. (Joshua Lott/The Washington Post)

At Harvard, Buttigieg studied under Sacvan Bercovitch, a prominent scholar who traced American exceptionalism to the Puritans of New England. Under his professors influence, Buttigieg wrote a thesis about a Puritan sermon by Samuel Danforth, who excoriated the faithful for forgetting why they had come to America (to make other lands more like the image of heaven and earth).

You cant understand America without understanding the Puritans, he said. In many ways, were still living out their legacy in ways that are good and bad.

When he was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, he became more drawn to the church, eventually deciding to join the Cathedral of St. James in South Bend. The beauty of religious observance, he said, made him more aware of the limits of human knowledge, power and reason.

Now he calls himself liturgically more conservative, preferring to be in a group setting with a set liturgy. He tries to attend services weekly and spends time reading scripture when he can. He said he looks for religious inspiration from people who have put faith into action, such as the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and modern-day heirs to that tradition, including the Rev. William Barber, a North Carolina minister.

As we talk of the need for a religious left, we should remember that the black church has been [putting faith into action] for quite some time, he said.

Darren Dochuk, a historian at Notre Dame who writes about religion and politics, said Buttigieg clearly endorses a progressive faith rooted in Christian social gospel teachings, a movement that tied faith to action, which many young people in both Protestant and Catholic churches will find appealing.

I have doubts that his talk about God and social Christianity and his desire to shift the religious politics of our day to the left will gain much traction among a majority of white evangelicals and conservative Catholics, he said, citing opposition to Buttigiegs abortion rights stance and the anti-LGBTQ sentiments in those communities. Whatever the case, I think he rightly senses the need for Democrats to quit avoiding or dodging or minimizing the God factor in American politics.

An increasingly loud religious left

Buttigiegs hope for a revived religious left is not new. Religious liberals have been voicing similar sentiments for years. But in 2019 with Trump in office, many see an opportunity to give Democratic policies moral language.

Buttigieg points to Catholic thinkers as influential in forming his idea of the role of faith in politics. In a government class at his Catholic high school, he was shown the 1989 film Romero, about Salvadoran bishop scar Romero, who was assassinated in 1980 after challenging the ruling elites, a story that helped form his understanding of human rights.

He also said he has been influenced by Catholic liberation theology, which was practiced and preached in Latin America beginning in the 1960s as a call to action against unjust societies that oppressed the poor and has found the spotlight again under Pope Francis.

He especially respects the work of early Christian theologian St. Augustine, Catholic historian Garry Wills and Jesuits like popular priest James Martin. On Saturday, Buttigieg and Martin will get awards from a gay and lesbian alumni organization from Notre Dame and Saint Marys College.

Martin noted that several of the other Democratic candidates who have thrown their hats in the ring have been quick to highlight their faith, including Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker.

Frankly, its a refreshing change and should remind us that no one political party, and neither the right nor the left, has a lock on the Christian faith, Martin said.

Many of the problems with religious politics, Buttigieg said, have to do with an inevitable putting down of the values of others.

To me whats more interesting is the way in which religious or nonreligious ethical motivations can overlap, he said. Those are the areas Im going to point to any time I mention a religious commitment of my own in the context of this campaign process.

This piece has been updated to include a different poll from Iowa.

This year and next, The Post plans to interview all willing 2020 presidential candidates about their views on faith.




A tangled mass of fish from the deposit in North Dakota's Hell Creek formation. (Robert DePalma)

Sixty-six million years ago, a massive asteroid crashed into a shallow sea near Mexico. The impact carved out a 90-mile-wide crater and flung mountains of earth into space. Earthbound debris fell to the planet in droplets of molten rock and glass.

Ancient fish caught glass blobs in their gills as they swam, gape-mouthed, beneath the strange rain. Large, sloshing waves threw animals onto dry land, then more waves buried them in silt. Scientists working in North Dakota recently dug up fossils of these fish: They died within the first minutes or hours after the asteroid hit, according to a paper published Friday in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a discovery that has sparked tremendous excitement among paleontologists.

Youre going back to the day that the dinosaurs died, said Timothy Bralower, a Pennsylvania State University paleoceanographer who is studying the impact crater and was not involved with this work. Thats what this is. This is the day the dinosaurs died.

About 3 in 4 species perished in what is called the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction, also known as the K-Pg event or K-T extinction. The killer asteroid most famously claimed the dinosaurs. But the T. rex and the triceratops were joined by hordes of other living things. Freshwater and marine creatures were victims, as were plants and microorganisms, including 93 percent of plankton. (A lone branch of dinosaurs, the birds, lives on.)

Four decades of research buttresses the asteroid extinction theory, widely embraced as the most plausible explanation for the disappearance of dinosaurs. In the late 1970s, Luis and Walter Alvarez, a father-son scientist duo at the University of California at Berkeley, examined an unusual geologic layer between the Cretaceous and Paleogene periods. The boundary was full of the element iridium, which is rare in Earths crust but not in asteroids. Walter Alvarez is one of the authors of the new study.

The Hell Creek fossils represent the first mass death assemblage of large organisms anyone has found that sits at the K-Pg boundary, study author Robert DePalma said in a statement.

DePalma, a doctoral student at the University of Kansas, began excavating the site at North Dakotas Hell Creek formation in 2013. Since then, DePalma and other paleontologists have found heaps of fossilized sturgeon and paddlefish with glass spheres still in their gills.

They found squidlike animals called ammonites, shark teeth and the remains of predatory aquatic lizards called mosasaurs. They found dead mammals, insects, trees and a triceratops. They found foot-long fossil feathers, dinosaur tracks and prehistoric mammal burrows. They found fossilized tree gunk called amber that had captured the glass spheres, too.

The site has all the trademark signals from the Chicxulub impact, Bralower said, including the glass beads and lots of iridium. In the geologic layer just above the fossil deposit, ferns dominate, the signs of a recovering ecosystem. Its spellbinding, he said.

In the early 1990s, researchers found the scar left by the asteroid  a crater in the Yucatan Peninsula. The impact was named after the nearby Mexican town of Chicxulub. Suggested kill mechanisms for the Chicxulub impact abound: It may have poisoned the planet with heavy metals, turned the ocean to acid, shrouded Earth in darkness or ignited global firestorms. Its punch may have triggered volcanoes that spewed like shaken soda cans.

Hell Creek is more than 2,000 miles from the Chicxulub crater. But a hail of glass beads, called tektites, rained there within 15 minutes of the impact, said study author Jan Smit, a paleontologist at Vrije University in Amsterdam who also was an early discoverer of iridium at the K-Pg boundary.

The fish, pressed in the mud like flowers in a diary, are remarkably well-preserved. Its the equivalent of finding people in life positions buried by ash after Pompeii, Bralower said.

At the time of the dinosaurs, the Hell Creek site was a river valley. The river fed into an inland sea that connected the Arctic Ocean to a prehistoric Gulf of Mexico. After the asteroid struck, seismic waves from a magnitude 10 to 11 earthquake rippled through this sea, according to the study authors.

This caused not a tsunami but whats known as seiche waves, the back-and-forth sloshes sometimes seen in miniature in a bathtub. These can be symptoms of very distant tremors  such as the seiche waves that churned in Norwegian fjords in 2011 after the giant Tohoku earthquake near Japan.

Seiche waves from the inland sea reached 30 feet, drowning the river valley in a pulse of water, gravel and sand. The rain of rocks and glass followed. The tektites dug small funnels in the sediment laid down by the seiche, Smit said, so you know for sure they are coming down when the waves are still running upriver. This is preservation, in other words, of a fresh hell.

Read more:

Right after an asteroid killed the dinosaurs, life returned to the scene of the crime

New dinosaur called Chicken From Hell

This triceratops is a Smithsonian icon. Now hell be fed to a T. rex.


Jen Durgins dad once ordered a pair of $20 hearing aids through the mail but gave up on the devices when they did not work well without getting them adjusted by an audiologist.

Durgin, who has two deaf children, tried to persuade her dad to see an audiologist for testing and fitting, but to no avail.

I think he just views hearing loss as a normal part of aging, said Durgin about her 77-year-old father, who lives in New England. For someone who never went to the doctor as a child and almost never as an adult, he just doesnt view it as necessary.

People who use prescription hearing aids or over-the-counter personal sound amplification products (PSAPs) often shy away from getting them adjusted when they dont work well. They may struggle with the technology, hate the stigma of being old and hard of hearing or have trouble affording the extra cost, which is typically included with prescribed hearing aids but not PSAPs.

Hearing loss affects nearly a third of adults between 65 and 74 and half of those 75 and older, according to the National Institutes of Health. But only about 20 percent of those who could benefit from hearing aids have used them. Many people avoid buying hearing aids because of the $2,200 to $7,000 cost per set.

The Over-the-Counter Hearing Aid Act of 2017 will regulate PSAPs and is expected to make them more affordable by opening the market to competition and selling directly to consumers. The Food and Drug Administration is on track to complete regulations by August 2020 for these devices aimed at people 18 and older with mild-to-moderate hearing loss, FDA spokeswoman Alison Hunt said.

The devices are not meant for people with serious hearing problems, who need more expertise with testing fitting and adjustment. The FDA has not yet revealed specifications for the devices, how complex or simple they might be or how much help will be included for customization.

Medicare doesnt cover hearing aids, and neither does most private insurance. A recent research article, partly supported by funding from the Cochlear Center for Hearing and Public Health at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and from the Commonwealth Fund, raises questions about how useful wider access to over-the-counter devices will be if buyers cannot afford to have them fitted.

The researchers analysis showed that people covered by Medicaid and Medicare were 41 percent less likely to use hearing-care services and twice as likely to have trouble hearing with their aids as their higher-income counterparts. They said even fewer people might use those services when they are separated from the cost of the devices.

Amber Willink, one of the authors, pointed out the study did not examine why that 41 percent didnt get their devices adjusted. She said that some patients might have skipped adjustments after a simple fitting of an OTC device because of cost or because they werent told they might need to keep coming back for adjustments.

Medicaid coverage for hearing services varies by state, and some patients might not have had coverage and couldnt afford to pay out of pocket.

Willink, assistant scientist at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said the new law requires that the OTC devices be programmable but does not specify whether that means merely volume control or customization.

Research has shown hearing aid users are more likely to be satisfied if they receive hearing-care services, which may include tips on how to hear better in certain situations, gradually increasing wearing time and limiting use to the home at first.

Jaklin Naghdi Gabaee, an audiologist in Los Angeles, said her patients who have used OTC aids find them uncomfortable and harder to filter speech from the rest of other sounds.

OTC hearing aids cannot be reprogrammed or calibrated to each individual audiogram, Gabaee said.

The cost of hearing care services could be several hundred dollars for the first visit to customize the devices and less for follow-up visits, said Matthew Fitzgerald, chief of Audiology at Stanford Health Care, which is part of Stanford Medical Center.

The OTC Act will certainly increase access to devices and lower costs, but its going to be like the Wild West the first few years because of how patients are going to handle and navigate that process, he said.

You have to sculpt your environment to you, he said, position yourself appropriately in a room, make sure youre facing the people you speak with.

And some consumers may have high expectations that may result in disappointment. Theyre not a panacea, said Jay Miller, 69, of his high-quality hearing aids.

Miller, a retired tax lawyer who lives near Milwaukee, said that returning to an audiologist early on for adjustment was beneficial.

If Im in a restaurant in some sort of situation where I was having trouble before, I can more easily pick up the conversation from across the table, Miller said. But every once in a while, I still cant hear clearly enough, so I have to ask somebody to repeat.

While advances in PSAPs could improve their quality, some people may still shy away from getting more help.

Mark Alyn, the 67-year-old host of Late Night Health Radio in Thousand Oaks, Calif., has mastered his hearing aids, learning to adjust them to suit his needs. His 94-year-old father-in-law has worn a hearing aid for years with poor results but refuses to get it adjusted. Alyn attributes the refusal to a dislike for dealing with technology.

They just dont understand it, he said.

Then theres the stigma.

I took my mom and she hated to go, he said, telling him they were for old people.

Yet when hearing loss is left unchecked, the cost can be high emotionally, physically and financially. Hearing loss has been associated with cognitive decline, dementia, falls, higher health-care costs and worse health care when compared with those with good hearing.

My late mother loved chatting with her friends, doctors and other acquaintances until her hearing waned in her 80s. Then her social circle shrank and she became increasingly isolated, often hearing only parts of what was said. She would not buy a hearing aid because of the cost.

In her last few years, she began having trouble hearing what doctors said to her and misunderstood phone messages, leading to confusion and panic until I intervened.

During hospitalizations, when doctors spoke to her but she could not hear them, she often looked confused and failed to answer simple questions. Sometimes, physicians appeared to dismiss her concerns because of that confusion. But when I repeated what had been said slowly and loudly in a quiet setting, she understood.

Willink said Medicare should consider whether paying for hearing services would reduce other health-care costs.

Its not just a health issue, its also a social issue, she said. Once hearing loss is treated, people are more able to engage with other people.

Read more

For mild to moderate hearing loss you may not need an expensive hearing aid

Hearing loss can be very isolating, hurting relationships with family and friends

Hearing aids may soon be over-the-counter and connect to WiFi


Mountaineers walk past the Hillary Step while pushing for the summit of Mount Everest in 2009. (AFP/Getty Images)

Melting glaciers are revealing dozens of dead bodies on the worlds tallest mountain, according to news reports.

The treacherous journey to the summit of Mount Everest is riddled with obstacles  falling ice, ragged terrain, biting temperatures and incredible heights that cause altitude sickness. While nearly 5,000 people have successfully climbed the mountain, another 300 are thought to have died along the way.

Some of these bodies ended up covered in ice and remained hidden that way for many years. But now, climate change is accelerating the ice melt around them, exposing multiple limbs and bodies, the BBC reported last month.

Last year, a group of researchers found that the ice on Everest was warmer than average, and a study conducted four years ago found that ponds on the mountain were expanding with melting ice water, according to the BBC. But its not only melting glaciers that are exposing these bodies  its also the movement of the Khumbu Glacier in Nepal.

Most of the bodies are turning up at the Khumbu Icefall, one of the most dangerous spots on the mountain.

There, blocks of ice can unexpectedly collapse and glaciers can slip several feet downhill per day, The Washington Post reported in 2015. In 2014, 16 climbers were killed at once in that area, crushed under falling ice.

After searing tragedy, Everests deadliest route is off-limits

Removing bodies from the mountain is a delicate, dangerous and extremely costly task riddled with legal constraints. Nepals law, for example, requires government agencies to be involved when dealing with them, according to the BBC.

Whats more, most climbers like to be left on the mountains if they died there, Alan Arnette, a mountaineer, told the BBC.


Marc Fisher, a senior editor, writes about most anything. He has been The Washington Posts enterprise editor, local columnist and Berlin bureau chief, and he has covered politics, education, pop culture and much else in three decades on the Metro, Style, National and Foreign desks.

For two years, beginning in 1978, Donald Trump focused most of his energy on building what would become his signature achievement, his gold-tinged, 58-story Trump Tower on New Yorks Fifth Avenue. After working the city bureaucracy and public opinion, he finally got permission to tear down the Bonwit Teller department store on the site, a beloved Art Deco gem, and begin construction.

Before demolition, Trump had promised the Metropolitan Museum of Art that he would preserve two 15-foot-tall limestone relief panels of nearly naked goddesses dancing high above the busy avenue. But on a spring morning in 1980, Penelope Hunter-Stiebel, a curator at the museum, received an emergency call: Trumps workers were blasting the sculptures to bits. Hunter-Stiebel jumped into a cab and raced to the site, leaping out amid paralyzed traffic to run the last 10 blocks, even though she was nine months pregnant. When she got to Bonwit Teller, they were jackhammering through the neck of one of the figures, she told The Washington Post in 2016.

The next morning, John Baron, identified as a vice president of the Trump organization, was quoted in the New York Times as saying that the sculptures were without artistic merit and had to go. There was no John Baron; Trump often spoke to reporters pretending to be a spokesman by that name.

Trump already had won the right to tear down the building, but that was not enough. He had to keep hitting back at the preservationists and art lovers who had fought him.

The president has rarely seen much value in being magnanimous when he wins. Now that special counsel Robert S. Mueller IIIs Russia investigation is finally done, with no further criminal charges forthcoming, Trump is following the same pattern he always has after a triumph: Through half a century in business and politics, his instinct is consistently to keep the battle going, even in victory.

Since Mueller delivered his report to Attorney General William P. Barr, Trump has been crowing about his Complete and Total EXONERATION, even though Mueller specifically said that the report does not exonerate him. But hes also already moving to take his pound of flesh from those who opposed him. Trump said that there are people out there who have done very bad things, I would say treasonous things, against our country, and White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Democrats and media figures who accused Trump of working with Russia have made accusations equal to treason, which is punishable by death in this country. For Trump, there can never be enough winning.

In his business life, Trump often refused to settle for good news, insisting on making big, antagonistic gestures to humiliate defeated opponents.

In 1995, he bought 40 Wall Street, an iconic 72-story office building in Lower Manhattan. The purchase was a triumph; he paid a paltry $8 million, and its value soared almost immediately. But Trump was impatient about clearing out the building to renovate it, and a law firm near the top of the tower was resisting leaving. One winter morning, the lawyers arrived in the lobby to find broken elevators, no heat and their new landlord waiting to greet them.

It was brutal, Trump recalled in a 2016 interview with The Post. There were, like, 120 lawyers standing in the lobby. . . . I said, Fellas, you got to walk upstairs because the elevators are under repair.  Trump retold the story with an impish smile and a satisfied chuckle.

At moments when he might most be expected to act with compassion, generosity, consideration and forgiveness, as Tony Schwartz, co-author of TrumpsThe Art of the Deal bestseller, put it, Trump instead resumed his attacks, showing himself to be reactive, deceitful, distracted, vindictive, impulsive, and, above all, self-absorbed.

[I wrote The Art of the Deal with Trump. His self-sabotage is rooted in his past.]

In 2008, after two years of heated battle with property owners and government regulators, Trump won permission to build two golf courses and a luxury hotel on the Scottish coast. Yet he fought on against a few recalcitrant neighbors who had opposed him: He had his staff planted a row of trees in front of one neighbors house, obscuring their view of the sea, and his workers blocked in another neighbors cottage, building a two-story-high hill in their front yard so that whenever it rained, their yard filled with water.

After Trump won the presidency, he made what seemed to be a peace offering to Hillary and Bill Clinton. Theyre good people, he said on 60 Minutes. I dont want to hurt them. But Trump quickly returned to the offensive: Four months after he took office, his erstwhile opponent was Crooked Hillary once again, and now he wanted the Justice Department to investigate her.

How Trump fights has little to do with whether he has won or lost. He believes in his way of doing business, and, according to fans and critics who have worked with him for many years, he resists suggestions that his actions may be counterproductive. He really believes hes going to win, said Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax, who speaks to Trump frequently. He really does believe in the power of belief. Most people look at litigation or investigation as a grave danger. The president looks at legal matters as a normal course of doing business.

To Trump, winning is not just about cutting down an opponent, but about showing off his victory to the wider world. For all his wealth and power, he has spent most of his life scrapping for respect and climbing back from adversity. At pivotal points throughout his career, his initiatives flopped, his finances tanked and his reputation sagged. Always, he asserted that he would fight to the end. Often, he pushed back hard at those he perceived as enemies. Even when he won, he kept fighting as though he were still in a battle for survival.

Trump traced his combative nature to his father, Fred Trump, who instructed him that he must always be a killer. Thats why Im so screwed up, because I had a father who pushed me so hard, Trump wrote in his 2007 book, Think Big.

In 1985, Trump overcame a wave of opposition to his plan to buy a historic mansion in Palm Beach, Fla., and turn it into a club. The blue bloods and billionaires who found a refuge in the oceanfront community were appalled at the idea that Trump would let just anyone rent Mar-a-Lago for weddings and fundraising events. The local newspapers chastised him for putting out word that celebrities such as Princess Diana and Madonna might join.

But Trump prevailed and bought the property for a song after driving the price down by acquiring the beachfront land directly between Mar-a-Lago and the water and then threatening to build a large house to block the ocean view from the mansion.

[Mar-a-Lago isnt the Winter White House. Its just an embarrassing cash grab.]

After Trump turned Mar-a-Lago into his club, he reveled in the accomplishment. He chopped down the estates hedges to give passersby a clear view. He invited celebrity guests such as Michael Jackson to draw paparazzi. And to slap back at the Palm Beach town council, which had sought to restrict his ability to hold big bashes at the property, Trump began a campaign of embarrassment, sending out copies of Gentlemans Agreement and Guess Whos Coming to Dinner, classic movies about religious and racial discrimination  a pointed reminder that the towns leaders had for many years condoned the exclusion of Jews and blacks from its private clubs.

More than three decades later, the Mueller investigation presented Trump with a more existential challenge. His presidency potentially was on the line. People who have spoken to the president differ on whether he truly thought he would be cleared or, rather, was setting the stage to declare victory no matter what happened. Either way, according to two advisers who spoke to Trump, the president was prepared to hit back, whether the special counsels report was damning or exculpatory.

What bothered Trump most about the Mueller operation was not so much the legal jeopardy he faced, but rather the constant reminder that a substantial portion of the country viewed him as somehow illegitimate, unworthy of respect. He thinks its feeding the media picture of him as someone who is a joke, a guy who shouldnt be president, said a former senior advisr to Trump who spoke on the condition of anonymity to maintain his relationship with the president.

As soon as Barr issued a letter saying that Mueller had found no evidence of collusion between Trump and the Russians, the president pivoted. At first, he agreed that Mueller had acted honorably. Now, Trumps lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani  who first said that Muellers conclusion proved that he is an honest man  says that Muellers actions were not honorable, but unprofessional.

[Barr is wrong. Obstruction of justice doesnt require an underlying crime.]

Trump has always lived resolutely in the present, often expressing puzzlement when those around him fixate on events or statements from the past. Even as he railed against the Mueller witch hunt, his tirades were fleeting. Hes a person of the moment, Ruddy says. Hed hear something about the investigation and hed express dismay, anger, disgust, but thats that minute. He has a way of zoning these things, keeping them all apart.

Yet time and again, throughout his career, Trump has found ways to strike back at past adversaries even after he has defeated them. He believes above all else in burnishing the idea of Trump, the name, the brand, the character he has built, and he believes that is best done by returning fire, even in victory. Its very important to establish yourself not to be a patsy, Trump told The Post in 1987, when he was still building his career as a New York developer. If you dont, you dont end up sitting in this chair.

Read more from Outlook:

Trump borrows his view of power  and his rhetoric  from the mob

I study the psychology of adolescent bullies. Trump makes perfect sense to me.

Trump wants to put on a show. Governing matters less.

Follow our updates on Facebook and Twitter.


Walter Dellinger, a partner at OMelveny & Myers and the Douglas Maggs emeritus professor of law at Duke University, was assistant attorney general and head of the Office of Legal Counsel during the Clinton administration.

President Trump and his allies are ridiculing the critics who anticipated that the report from special counsel Robert S. Mueller III would reveal devastating information. But those who vested Muellers Russia inquiry with their hopes may yet be proven right.

All we can do right now is speculate about a report that only a few people have seen, at least until the redacted version comes out in April. But even based on what little we know  Attorney General William P. Barrs summary, the indictments and court filings that came from Muellers team  its premature to write off its 400-page findings . Muellers office may have properly drafted a detailed and damning account of Trumps obstruction of justice and simply cast it as a set of facts, a road map for the analysts who must decide what to do about it: members of Congress.

If Mueller believed it was inappropriate to pronounce on the presidents guilt  after all, the Justice Department has a long-standing policy against indicting a sitting president  he could still be following the example of Leon Jaworski, the Watergate independent counsel who decided against indicting President Richard Nixon, but instead submitted to Congress an extensive accounting of all the facts surrounding his efforts to shut down the investigation. Jaworskis testimony skipped all the adjectives and adverbs. It simply told the story and allowed the branch of government tasked with oversight to do the rest.

What Mueller may not have anticipated (and perhaps could not have avoided) is that Barr would improperly declare the presidents guilt or innocence. But that doesnt mean Mueller came up empty-handed.

[Trump is never satisfied with just winning. He has to flaunt it, too.]

The attorney general does have a role in determining what to show Congress. In particular, he should redact information drawn from grand jury testimony and anything that might give away the tools of American espionage. But why did Barr, in his own letter to Congress describing Muellers work, reach a definitive conclusion about the absence of criminal guilt? The Special Counsels decision to describe the facts of his obstruction investigation without reaching any legal conclusions leaves it to the Attorney General to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime, Barr wrote. But the Special Counsels decision did not require this at all. Instead, Mueller may have intended for Congress or voters to reach their own conclusions about Trumps wrongdoing. It was Barr, not Mueller, who decided that Barr should be the judge.

What in the report might challenge Trumps claim that he has been exonerated? The initial portion could document the intervention by military agents of a hostile foreign power in an American presidential campaign. Yes, we already know the outlines of this attack from the allegations in Muellers grand jury indictments of Russian operatives. But it would nonetheless be startling to read a coherent account of this brazen attack on democracy. The counterintelligence portion may prove deeply embarrassing to those who argue that Muellers investigation should never have existed. Will those critics really maintain that Congress and the American people should be kept in ignorance about such an attack on the United States? This section may also establish that the media obsession with Russia-gate was entirely proper, indeed essential.

Muellers appointment also required him to study any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump. The absence of indictments of Trump campaign officials has left many of Trumps critics feeling crestfallen and many of his defenders feeling vindicated. Both responses may be an overreaction. Barr says, The investigation did not establish that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities. And, yes, none of Trumps campaign officials will serve time for complicity with the Russians.

[Why did liberals need to believe that Mueller would save democracy?]

But that hardly means theres no damaging information about them. The standard by which Mueller measured provable criminality appears (appropriately) to be quite demanding. According to Barrs letter, Mueller determined that what was needed to establish coordination was an agreement  tacit or express  between the Trump Campaign and the Russian government on election interference. This standard might preclude indictments where campaign officials knew of Russians interference and even welcomed it, but where the special counsels office could not expect to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that there was an actual agreement between the campaign and the Russian government. Even in the absence of indictments in connection with complicity, simply narrating the Russian attempts, and what the Trump team knew about them, would highlight the presidents utter failure to fashion an adequate defense of American democracy.

The most damaging aspect of the report would be a thorough account of Trumps efforts to obstruct justice. The known facts (firing an FBI director who refused to pledge loyalty and cease an investigation; the demand that an attorney general unrecuse himself to protect the president; the call for an investigation of the father-in-law of a witness against Trump; the dangling of pardons before witnesses) are all bad enough. The report probably contains others. Dont forget the allegation that Trump asked the CIA director and the director of national intelligence to push the FBI director to end his investigation of former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn. Dont forget: The famous smoking gun Oval Office tape that forced Nixons resignation had him ordering the CIA to persuade the FBI to end its investigation of the Watergate break-in.

Barrs letter says that Mueller included facts on both sides of the [obstruction] question. That statement does not rule out the possibility that the facts are strongly on the side of guilt. But Mueller may simply have determined that he was bound by the 2000 opinion of the Justice Departments Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) that a sitting president should not be indicted. The OLC held that an indictment would create an unacceptable cloud over the presidency, and so it should wait until after a president leaves office. Following his agencys rule may have deterred Mueller from introducing that cloud, particularly in his role as a lone prosecutor who would be unilaterally proclaiming, without trial, that the president is guilty of a federal crime. His caution would be understandable.

[The Mueller report is in. Get ready for the conspiracy theories.]

If Mueller reasoned that way, he would have concluded that such a judgment should be left to the political branch of government. Congressional review is especially appropriate, because the worst offenses may not be criminal, and may demand something broader than a legalistic focus. It would be a grave offense for a presidential candidate secretly to be indebted to a foreign power and to lie about that relationship, for instance. But nothing in the criminal code forbids it. This is why we have the phrase high crimes and misdemeanors.

There was a time when it was thought that firing Mueller would lead to mass demonstrations nationwide. Prominent lawyers quietly discussed the necessity of being arrested for chaining themselves to the doors of the Justice Department if it came to that. Would that outcome really be so different from one in which the release of the report is indefinitely delayed or its contents excessively redacted? Both cases would prevent the public from finding out what the government discovered.

During my years teaching constitutional history, I reviewed day-by-day the debates at the 1787 Philadelphia Convention. I was struck by how often the Constitutions framers voiced fears of foreign influence in American affairs. The delegates repeatedly fretted that the fledging nation would become a plaything of European politics, leading to the emergence of a French party and a British party that would sap our capacity for self-rule. But I thought Americans would never tolerate foreign meddling, and I regarded their worries as unrealistic, even foolish. Until now.

Read more from Outlook:

The Mueller investigation was no failure

Follow our updates on Facebook and Twitter.




Frances E.W. Harper, 1898. (Library of Congress; Prints and Photographs Division)

Ellen Gruber Garvey is the author of " Writing with Scissors: American Scrapbooks from the Civil War to the Harlem Renaissance " and is a professor of English at New Jersey City University.

The National Portrait Gallery will celebrate the centennial of U.S. women winning the right to vote with the exhibit Votes for Women: A Portrait of Persistence. This exhibit makes history not for its commemoration of suffrage, but for the recognition it finally gives to African American women such as Frances Ellen Watkins Harper, Julia A. Foote, Ida B. Wells Barnett, Mary Church Terrell and Alice Dunbar-Nelson.

It is about time.

Commemorations of suffragists such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Carrie Chapman Catt have begun to address the racism embedded within their political campaigns. White suffrage organizations allied with white Southerners to pass the 19th Amendment, ultimately distancing themselves from black support, even trying to segregate black women into special sections of suffrage parades.

But black suffragists such as Dunbar-Nelson persisted, reaching out to a constituency that national white suffrage organizations had often ignored or even pushed away. In the process, they framed black womens activism as intersectional rather than pulled by divided loyalties, and showed how black womens electoral participation could benefit black and working-class communities.

Along with being an activist, Dunbar-Nelson was an accomplished short-story writer, poet, political organizer with the NAACP and public speaker. As the Pennsylvania suffrage campaign heated up in 1915, she took time from her position as an English teacher at all-black Howard High School in Wilmington, Del., to deliver speeches to suffrage clubs, black mens clubs, black womens clubs and public rallies attended by men and women of all races. She was strategic, using the name of her late ex-husband, the respected and revered poet Paul Laurence Dunbar, to gain attention from a media that rarely covered the activities of black suffragists.

It worked. Although the resolution did not succeed in Pennsylvania, the areas where she concentrated her efforts supported it.

She persisted despite resistance from all corners. Black anti-suffragists saw a racial threat in womens suffrage. Some worried that womens suffrage would magnify existing inequalities and increase the number of our civil and political oppressors, since only white women would really gain the vote in Jim Crow localities. Southern white anti-suffragists, on the other hand, ignored black disenfranchisement and declared that if black women had the vote, they would muscle in and outvote demure white ladies, who would not leave home to vote.

Dunbar-Nelson and other black suffragists rebutted such arguments to advocate suffrage among black communities. Speaking to black audiences, Dunbar-Nelson argued that black womens votes would add to the strength of the black community. She explained to a black church in Harrisburg: When the rights of the race are an issue, the women will stand with the men on the matter and by doubling our vote we will then be able to show to the oppressor that we are a factor that should not be despised. She told men at Pittsburghs black elite Loendi Club that the race with double political power could be potent to protect itself.

African Americans developed distinctive arguments for suffrage. When anti-suffragists said that women should not leave their home duties to vote, African American suffragists such as Harper pointed out that black women already worked outside the home and could balance public and private duties.

Dunbar-Nelson took Harpers argument further to explain repeatedly that black womens work outside the home benefited the black community as a whole. She argued to a black audience: Our women have literally built up [our] race in domestic service, which keeps them out of their home all day long; that means that the majority of our women are out of their homes every day helping the men to accumulate [wealth]. If we are good enough to help in all this, it looks as if we are good enough to cast a vote. When anti-suffragists claimed that politics was too dirty for women, Dunbar-Nelson responded, Politics is the only dirt we dont get into at present.

Dunbar-Nelson used the experiences of black women in the workforce as an asset to handle new social issues government ought to engage with. She argued that voters could address the needs of black families coming north in the Great Migration, who lived in overcrowded ghetto housing. In one talk to a black womens group, she denounced in emphatic terms the fact that colored families in many cities of this country were living in congested sections and that there was not ample room in their homes for the family. Suffrage was first about the vote, and then about what African American women could change with the vote.

And so, when women finally won the vote, Dunbar-Nelson was more than ready for it. She organized black women to cast their votes effectively and not be limited by party loyalty. Her activism was costly. In 1920, when she returned from a social justice pilgrimage to Ohio with thousands of women to talk to Republican presidential candidate Warren G. Harding, she learned that her principal and Wilmingtons Democratic Board of Education had fired her for attending.

But this did not deter her activism. When it came to party loyalty, she practiced what she preached. She first worked arduously for Republicans, then the more progressive party. Yet, when white Republican politicians failed to support an anti-lynching measure, she switched her party affiliation to Democratic, and worked for Al Smith in 1928.

Despite her costly and consequential work, Dunbar-Nelson is missing from the historical narrative because black women were written out of news stories and historical accounts about suffrage. But today, in the National Portrait Gallery, Alice Dunbar-Nelson is represented by a glamorous studio portrait used during her 1915 campaign.

The inclusion of Dunbar-Nelson in the National Portrait Gallery is an important step in our commemoration of suffrage history. The show highlights the importance of organizations such as black churches, black educational institutions and the African American womens club movement in womens rights struggles. The visual riches of the exhibit include photographs and engravings of familiar figures such as Stanton, Sojourner Truth, Susan B. Anthony and Frances Willard.

The official program of the 1913 Woman Suffrage Procession in Washington, which had attempted to keep black women from marching, is displayed alongside the work and portraits of educator Mary McLeod Bethune, freedom fighter Harriet Tubman and abolitionist lecturer Sarah Parker Remond  all womens rights activists who fought for suffrage and better lives for African Americans.

By portraying womens suffrage in an extended historical context  with a photo of 1960s civil rights activist Fannie Lou Hamer and a presentation of Native American and Puerto Rican suffrage issues as well  the exhibit recasts the suffrage struggle beyond the familiar narrative with its 1920 endpoint. As a result, it insists we see the multifaceted strands that wove together to ensure that all women can vote, and how extended that struggle has been.




Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, shown at center in a wheelchair, is depicted March 7 in a courtroom sketch during his sentencing hearing in federal court before Judge T.S. Ellis III. (Dana Verkouteren/AP)

Say Burgin is assistant professor of history at Dickinson College and author of an essay on Judge George Crockett, Jr. in the forthcoming volume, " The Strange Careers of the Jim Crow North: Segregation and Struggle Outside of the South ."

To many, the 47-month sentence that Judge T.S. Ellis III handed down to former Trump campaign chief Paul Manafort this month, a sentence that fell far below federal guidelines, smacked of racism. Despite the severity of Manaforts crimes, it seemed that Ellis gave him benefits of the doubt that are routinely denied defendants who arent white and wealthy  a point made clear as lawyers and politicians rushed forward with examples of defendants receiving harsher sentences for far less severe crimes.

The argument that the justice system plays by two sets of rules is not new. But the sentence Ellis handed down shined a light on the role of judges in that system, something usually neglected by reformers focused on sentencing guidelines and, more recently, prosecutors. Yet while judges such as Ellis play a critical role in maintaining an unequal system, they can also help to dismantle it, as Detroit judge George Crockett Jr. showed 50 years ago.

One of Detroits few black lawyers in the 1940s, Crockett co-founded Goodman, Crockett, Eden, and Robb, which is believed to be the countrys first interracial law firm and one that regularly represented immigrant defendants. Throughout his time at the bar, Crockett earned a reputation as a champion of the Constitution and the marginalized.

Crockett witnessed the inner workings of a two-track justice system that mostly upheld the rights of people who were white and economically comfortable but that abridged due process for people of color and poor folks. Police ran roughshod over the rights of the latter, and prosecutors often helped. Detroits judges, who could have served as a brake in this system, instead practiced what Crockett called the old habit of accommodating the police and the prosecutors office, deferring to them on questions that ranged from habeas corpus to bail to sentencing. Judicial accommodation allowed police misconduct and brutality, primarily against the poor and minorities, to go unchecked.

This reality prompted Crockett to run for, and win, a judgeship in 1966. He aimed to embody the judicial ideal of independence, as opposed to his colleagues willingness to hop into bed with police and prosecutors. That was a difficult goal in the 1960s. So distorted was the system that when judges resisted requests from law enforcement, media outlets, public officials and citizens condemned them as anti-police. By 1969, Crockett wrote, judicial accommodation of police and prosecutors had gone on for so long that to most of us, the violation of the law is the law.

When Detroit erupted in a five-day uprising in July 1967, the difference between Crockett and his peers was stark. Police swept up 7,200 citizens, more than 80 percent of whom were black. Wayne County Prosecutor William Cahalan requested judges help in keeping people off the streets. Police made hundreds of illegal arrests, Cahalans office rubber-stamped warrants, and judges upheld the indictments. To keep people in prison, most judges set bails of $10,000 to $25,000, often for petty misdemeanors. Some indicted whole groups of people at once, and the benchs executive judge even ordered the sheriff to consult him if any defendants tried to post bail so that he could potentially raise bail to an unpayable level.

But not Crockett  he would have none of it. He individualized bail, with levels of $2,000 or less for the majority of people who came before him. And he threatened the sheriff with contempt of court if he didnt honor bonds. For years afterward, Crockett spoke out about the unequal justice displayed during the uprising. Try to imagine what our system of justice  and those who administer it  would have required if these defendants had been white or rich, he wrote. Hundreds of cases can be cited to show that for such defendants, personal recognizance would be the only requirement for their immediate release.

While the uprising exposed the willingness of judges to operate as appendages of police and prosecutors, a case a year and a half later showed how distorted the publics expectation of the justice system had become. On March 29, 1969, the Republic of New Africa, a radical all-black group dedicated to reparations and building a black nation in the United States, exchanged gunfire with Detroit police outside a church, leaving one white officer dead. Police sprayed the church with gunfire, stormed in and arrested all 142 men, women and children inside.

Local ministers notified Crockett, who hurried to the precinct to discover that police had still not made a list of the arrestees and no one had been allowed to make phone calls. So he demanded a makeshift court be set up in the precinct and commenced habeas corpus proceedings. Detroit police had mass-arrested citizens because they were black and radical. Crockett wouldnt allow it to stand unchecked.

Over the next several hours, prosecutors moved to release 130 arrestees. But Cahalan wanted nine individuals detained as key suspects, because they had tested positive when police administered nitrate tests to detect gunfire residue. Crockett ordered their release on the grounds that the tests had been unconstitutional and that the police had violated the rights of the arrestees by denying them counsel.

Police and the media erupted, leading to an effort to impeach Crockett. The Detroit Police Officers Association and Detroit News claimed Crockett release[d] killers and gave license to kill policemen. Off-duty police and their families picketed outside Recorders Court, circulated petitions to remove Crockett from the bench and took out full-page ads saying Crockett was racist. Mayor Jerome Cavanagh and the citys other daily, the Detroit Free Press, backed the police, noting that Crocketts actions were not standard.

As hysteria whipped up and threats against his life mounted, Crockett initially stayed quiet. But after several days, he broke his silence. He corrected journalists misrepresentations, noting that it was days before any outlets asked for a copy of the certified proceedings, so willing had they been to take the police and prosecutor at their word. His actions had been legal, proper and moral, he maintained. He too wanted criminals [to] be apprehended. But I will not  subvert legal processes and deny justice to some because they are poor or black.

A double standard in the application of constitutional rights was clear: Can you imagine the Detroit police invading an all-white church and rounding up everyone in sight? Crockett asked. Can anyone explain in other than racist terms the shooting by police into a closed and surrounded church?

Crockett looked like an activist judge because he maintained judicial autonomy. Racism in the courts had been so normalized that the public reacted hysterically when Crockett challenged this crooked norm.

Months later, Michigans Judicial Tenure Commission found Crockett to be in the right. Crockett remained on the bench until 1980.

Judge Ellis defended ignoring prosecutorial recommendations in sentencing Manafort by invoking judicial independence. This shouldnt bother us. What should bother us, however, is that defendants of color and poor defendants have historically not benefited from such independent thinking by judges. Instead they face judges who act at the behest of police and prosecutors.

As Crockett often reminded his peers, There is no equal justice for black people in our criminal courts today  because our judges, by their rulings, make it so. Judges today must be more like George Crockett if we are to have a fair and equitable justice system.


President Trump speaks at a news conference Friday at Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. The day before, Trump issued an order giving most federal employees a pay raise retroactive to Jan. 6. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images)

Most federal employees in the Washington-Baltimore area will receive a 2.27 percent pay raise retroactive to Jan. 6, under an order signed by President Trump.

That raise will apply to those paid under the General Schedule, the salary system applying to most white-collar employees below the executive level, and will be the largest raise among the localities in that system. The Washington-Baltimore locality encompasses not only those cities and their immediate suburbs but also much of the rest of Maryland and Northern Virginia, and reaches into eastern West Virginia and south-central Pennsylvania.

Issuance of the order and the pay tables on Thursday, six weeks after the raise was signed into law, ends a process that started more than a year ago with Trumps initial recommendation to give no raise in 2019 for 2.1 million federal employees. Because Congress did not pass a raise figure before the end of last year, the freeze took effect in January, only to be overridden by a budget measure Trump signed Feb. 15 providing for an average 1.9 percent raise.

In the weeks following, federal employees had been waiting with mounting impatience for the order needed to formally set new pay rates for future paychecks and to provide for back pay retroactive to the start of the first full pay period of the year, which was Jan. 6.

Some good news for federal workers! After far too long of a delay, the modest cost of living increase that we secured for our civil servants as part of the government funding package is officially in place, Sen. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) said in a tweet.

Part of the 1.9 percent was designated to be divided among the locality zones according to pay comparison data from an advisory council, resulting in variations. Following Washington-Baltimore, the largest raises are to be paid in the San Francisco, Seattle and San Diego areas. The smallest, 1.66 percent, is to be paid in areas without a separate city rate, called the rest of the U.S. locality. Blue-collar employees are to receive raises up to 2.06 percent.

Those new rates now will have to be plugged into the payroll providers that agencies use, which further will have to recompute pay that employees already have received to add the retroactive boost.

That process could take weeks, but Employees are not entitled to interest on any payments received as a result of processing the retroactive adjustments in pay, according to the Office of Personnel Management.

Most federal employees in pay systems above the General Schedule are under performance-pay systems and receive varying raises up to a pay cap, in most cases now $192,300. A separate pay cap, now $166,500, limits pay of the highest-ranking General Schedule employees in some of the localities.

The rates payable to political appointees, who are paid under a separate system called the Executive Schedule, are increasing for the first time since 2010, by 1.9 percent. The amount paid for a cabinet secretary for example is rising to $203,500.

The raise does not affect U.S. Postal Service employees, whose pay is determined in bargaining, nor federal retirees, most of whom received an inflation adjustment of 2.8 percent in January.

Military personnel received a 2.6 percent raise in January and would be due for a 3.1 percent raise in January 2020 under the most recent White House budget proposal  which once again calls for a freeze on federal employee pay rates. Federal employee unions and some members of Congress meanwhile are seeking a 3.6 percent federal employee raise for next January.


Hedge fund manager Michael Bills was the top individual donor to Gov. Ralph Northams election campaign, but hes disappointed with the scandal-plagued Democrat and looking to back new candidates  young, progressive, maybe even a black woman for governor.

After years behind the scenes, Bills is raising his profile with an unusual effort based on a single issue: breaking up the political influence of Dominion Energy. He expects to give millions to candidates who agree to shun donations from the states biggest utility and top corporate donor.

With the states top Democrats stung by controversy during a crucial election year, Bills and his money may be more influential than ever.

Its an opportunity for everybody. Were trying to be helpful and generous, said Bills, 61, during an interview at the offices of his Bluestem Asset Management overlooking Charlottesvilles downtown pedestrian mall.

[Anti-Dominion group claims customers pay too much for electricity]

In 2017, Bills formed the nonprofit organization Clean Virginia to carry out his mission of fighting Dominions influence over state politics. The Richmond-based utility has long been a generous giver to politicians on both sides of the aisle. It employs former lawmakers and takes an active role in state government; last year Dominion helped shape a major rewrite of Virginias utility regulations that gave the monopoly much more latitude to invest in future projects with less government review of its profits.

[The giant company that could: How Dominion turned scorn into a big payday]

Bills said he came up with a unique way to take on the utility after analyzing its political donations and finding that the company averages about $1,800 per legislator.

I said, wait a minute, I could give some amount of money to subsidize that if candidates agreed not to accept donations from Dominion, he said. In the past year, Bills has given $410,000 to Virginia political causes  more money than Dominions $370,000 in the same period, according to the nonpartisan Virginia Public Access Project.

His unusual approach has turbocharged an issue that first gained traction during Virginias 2017 House of Delegates races, when a handful of Democrats said they would not take Dominion money.

This year, with all 140 seats in the legislature up for reelection, 27 incumbent delegates have taken the pledge so far, along with four senators  mostly Democrats, though one Republican in each chamber has signed up.

An additional 32 candidates running for House seats have sworn off Dominion money, along with 13 Senate candidates.

Dominion declined to comment for this report, but in the past it has defended its political giving as evenhanded and accused Bills of requiring recipients to do as he says to get his money. Some on the right have even speculated that there is Russian influence behind the anti-Dominion push.

Bills says he is just a concerned citizen who has the money to draw attention to something he cares about. He and his wife, Sonjia Smith, have been generous donors for years  almost always to Democrats, sometimes at odds with one another. Smith drew attention for backing Democrat Tom Perriello in his bid for the Democratic nomination for governor in 2017, while Bills went big for Northam.

His father was a career Air Force officer who settled in Hampton while Bills was in high school. After graduating from Hampton High  where he met his future wife  Bills got an economics degree at the University of Virginia and then an MBA at Columbia University.

He spent several years at Goldman Sachs in New York before returning to Charlottesville more than 25 years ago. He started Bluestem, which manages more than $1.1 billion in investor funds, and serves as its chief investment officer.

Bills has been active in environmental groups  hes a trustee of the Environmental Defense Fund; served for a time as chief investment officer of U-Va.s endowment; and teaches at the universitys school of commerce. He also helped found U-Va.s Sorensen Institute for Political Leadership, which has provided civics training to many officeholders around Virginia and which has given him a window into new generations of politicos.

Bills, who donated about $500,000 to help Northam in 2017, said he had become disappointed by the governor even before last months scandal over a racist photo in Northams 1984 medical school yearbook.

Last fall, Northam replaced two members of the State Air Pollution Control Board while they were deliberating a permit for a controversial natural gas pipeline being built by Dominion. Bills said he called the governor to complain that it looked like interference. That was the last time they talked.

[Ugly episode: Northam allies slam his decision to alter board before Dominion vote]

Once the photo emerged, showing one person in blackface and another wearing Ku Klux Klan garb, Bills put out a statement urging Northam to resign.

Now, Bills sees the scandal as a chance to help new leaders. He said he traveled recently to California and the District to talk with national donors and make sure they would still take part in this years races in Virginia  the only state in 2019 where the parties are in a competitive fight over control of the legislature. Bills also wants to make sure national donors avoid candidates who take Dominion money.

I am trying to make it anathema to do that, he said.

That has put Bills on the outs with some establishment Democrats. His group has targeted the minority leaders of both chambers of the legislature: Sen. Richard L. Saslaw and Del. Eileen Filler-Corn, both Fairfax Democrats.

But its time, he said, for a new approach to politics  and for women and people of color to lead the way.

Its an opportunity for those new leaders to assert themselves, Bills said. Theres a lot of really dynamic, exciting new blood. New blood coming will be good for Virginia. It will reflect more the modern world and less of the cronyism of the old way.

Read more:

Local newsletters: Local headlines (8 a.m.) | Afternoon Buzz (4 p.m.)

Like PostLocal on Facebook | Follow @postlocal on Twitter | Latest local news


Columnist

I take no stand in the debate over removing President Woodrow Wilsons name from an excellent public high school in Northwest Washington.

Wilson was a segregationist who stymied racial progress for decades. But putting another name on that school is not my call. I simply want to propose an appropriate substitute if the mayor and D.C. Council decide to make a change. The honor should go to one of the bravest, toughest and most inspiring individuals to run D.C. Public Schools: Vincent E. Reed.

Reed was the first black principal of Wilson at a time when it served mostly white students. He fought his whole life against the poisonous yet widespread notion that impoverished students, particularly black children whose parents had not gone to college, could not handle challenging lessons. That wrongheaded assumption was severely weakened in the Washington area by Reeds fervent attacks on it. He recruited an army of talented educators to help fight that battle.

He was a mentor to generations of D.C. teachers, principals and anyone with whom he came in contact. He was a role model par excellence, said Frazier OLeary, a recently retired Advanced Placement English teacher at Cardozo High School. OLeary is a national figure in the movement to give urban high school students more demanding classes.

Another educator influenced by Reed is Mike Durso, a successful principal in Maryland, Virginia and the District. He was one of Reeds many disciples, Durso said. We felt if he could not walk on water, it would be awfully close. He had such personal style and charisma. It was very difficult not to like and follow him.

Reeds most publicized accomplishment was the creation of the Benjamin Banneker Academic High School. When the D.C. school board blocked his idea for a school to attract the citys most academically ambitious teenagers, he quit in protest, producing a startling result.

Superintendents are usually advised to keep their school boards as happy as possible so they wont get fired. But Reed, who almost quit school at age 14 to become a boxer, was not the sort of person to back down. The 14th of 17 children raised in St. Louis, he became a Golden Gloves boxing champion, an all-American football tackle and an army officer in Korea.

Reeds friend Donald E. Graham, former publisher of The Washington Post, thought the school board would never appoint Reed superintendent, despite his legion of disciples. He was too tough. But after a series of embarrassing school system mishaps, Reed got the job, holding it from 1975 to 1980.

He made sure teachers were paid and books were delivered on time. He raised expectations for hiring. Commemorating Reeds death in 2017, Graham said, Vince told me that one of his predecessors had hired teachers without giving them a test of any kind, more or less on a first-come, first-served basis.

Reed emphasized reading, writing and math. He said test scores were important, a topic many school superintendents tried to avoid. For three years, the scores rose.

Some school board members didnt like the praise their superintendent was receiving. They repeatedly turned down his plan for Banneker to be a selective public high school like Stuyvesant in New York or Latin in Boston. They said his idea was elitist and would cater to whites. When Reed resigned in protest, the outcry was so great that the board gave in. Banneker was born.

Reed became an assistant U.S. education secretary. Then, for 15 years, he was The Posts vice president for communications, looking for ways to accelerate learning across the region.

Banneker today has mostly low-income students. Its ethic makeup is 74 percent black, 20 percent Hispanic, 3 percent Asian and 1 percent white. Strong teachers and motivated students have fulfilled Reeds hopes. Banneker is in the top 2 percent of all U.S. high schools measured by participation in college-level Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate courses and tests.

Reeds disciples inspire younger educators as he once did. Durso and OLeary have even gotten themselves elected to school boards. People like that will celebrate naming a high school after the great man they knew. It would also be an important endorsement of giving all children the time, encouragement and challenge they need to learn.

Read more:

Local newsletters: Local headlines (8 a.m.) | Afternoon Buzz (4 p.m.)

Like PostLocal on Facebook | Follow @postlocal on Twitter | Latest local news




In 1938, women carry the chains they intended to use if the cherry trees were removed. (New York Times/Redux)

The Jefferson Memorial and the cherry trees that surround it  those seasonal co-stars of postcards, watercolors and selfies by the million  seem to coexist with the harmony of a haiku. (White marble temple, plus pink blossoms to frame it, scream spring in Washington.)

But not always. When the two Washington icons were first introduced to each other, there were more curses than verses. The planned monument to Founding Father Thomas Jefferson sparked a massive flower-power resistance leading, eventually, to a standoff between womens garden clubs fighting for the trees and President Franklin Roosevelt determined to do right by T.J. By the end, garden club militants  impractical shoes, fur wraps and all  were ready to do battle with the bulldozers.

For in 1938, it was the proposed shrine to the third president that was the interloper on the banks of the Tidal Basin. The 3,000 Yoshino cherry trees given by the government of Japan in 1912 were already beloved in Washington. The trees had transformed a swampy stretch of government plant nurseries and fish hatcheries with a much-needed pink patina of pretty. The annual mob of visitors to the spring bloom was the original March Madness in a city that was increasing in both beauty and power as the 20th century progressed.

The plan to locate a memorial to Jefferson on the southeast corner of the tree-lined Tidal Basin was greeted with consternation from the start. In fine Washington tradition, each step of the design proposal met with howls of protest, from those who worried Jeffersons memorial would overshadow Lincolns, that it would violate the ever-controversial master plan for federal Washington, that it would create a traffic mess.

But mostly, residents worried that it would kill the trees. All of Tidal Basin Cherry Trees Doomed By Jefferson Memorial Commission Plans, warned a 1937 front-page headline in The Washington Post as plans were circulating.

[When Washington hated its cherry trees]

Officials promised throughout that they were doing everything possible to reduce the number of displaced trees, and that many more could be planted in other corners of the Mall and throughout Washington. As the debate grew more acrimonious, they often made these assertions anonymously.

From The Posts coverage: In this connection, one Government official who is involved in the tangled controversy minimized the campaign, widening daily, to save Washingtons famous cherry blossom festival. Plans are being made, he said, to develop Japanese cherry groves in other parts of the city which will be far more handsome than the one at the Tidal Basin.

"He requested that his name not be mentioned, as have all other officials who have volunteered information on the subject.

The tree lovers were having none of it. They didnt want more handsome groves elsewhere; they wanted to protect the original Yoshinos, which had come to define the setting and were considered too old to survive transplanting. Letters to the editor were filled with arbor ardor: Please do something! Stop the massacre! Stop this vandalism on the Potomac lest our posterity condemn us!



The Jefferson Memorial under construction around 1940. (Harris and Ewing/Library of Congress)

Sure enough, with each new proposed plan, the footprint was manipulated (cherry-mandered, you might say), and the number of imperiled trees came down.

One particular champion of the cherries was Eleanor Medill Cissy Patterson, the flamboyant owner of the Washington Times-Herald. A born newspaper women  her grandfather owned the Chicago Tribune, and her brother founded the New York Daily News  Patterson may have delighted more in shaking up official Washington than in saving the cherry trees. (Id rather raise hell than raise a garden, she once said in another context.)

But she ran a series of pro-Yoshino attacks on the Roosevelt administration. And as the day construction was scheduled to begin approached, she implored the citys tree partisans to take action. On Nov. 17, 1938, 50 women marched on the White House with a petition. The next day, the protesters went further.

Roosevelt was giving a press briefing when aide Marvin McIntyre interrupted with a dispatch from the construction site: Women were padlocking themselves to the cherry trees. Others were wresting shovels from the workers hands and digging dirt back into the holes. Some reportedly stood, arms folded, in front of the bulldozers.

The president was not pleased, and he immediately blamed Patterson. Roosevelt told the assembled reporters that the public has been subjected, by the owner of the newspapers, to the worst case of flimflamming Washington has seen in a long time, according to The Posts account of the hijacked briefing.

Roosevelt would not be budged. It would be the women and their chains who would be transplanted to some other part of Potomac Park, he pledged. The memorial, meanwhile, would go where Congress had authorized it to go.

And thus, the long-building Cherry Tree Rebellion bloomed and peaked on that autumn morning. By the time National Capital Parks Superintendent C. Marshall Finnan returned to the Tidal Basin, most of the estimated 150 protesters had left. The letter writing and objections continued, but so did the building of the memorial, with a ceremonial groundbreaking the next month.

A year later, when the corner stone was placed, Roosevelt waxed admiringly of the man who had written the Declaration of Independence and would soon, in statue form, stand watch over the Tidal Basin and its surrounding cherry grove.

And Roosevelt was there again in the spring of 1943, when John Russell Popes Pantheon-style building was finally dedicated. Although it may have been a bitter day for the defenders of the trees, they could take heart that the finished memorial consumed far fewer than some earlier plans called for.

Even better, when they took in the scene that next spring and decades of springs to come, it all  bark and marble, blossoms and columns  looked born to share the space. A neoclassical classic was born.

Read more Retropolis:

For International Womens Day, here are 7 of historys greatest women-led protests

Night of terror: The suffragists who were beaten and tortured for seeking the vote

She made history as a Navy pilot. An all-female squadron just flew over her funeral.

The first female Marine: In 1918, she couldnt vote but rushed to serve

The first woman to start a bank  a black woman  finally gets her due in the Confederacys capital




Mar 29, 2019; Minneapolis, MN, USA; Golden State Warriors forward Kevin Durant (35) reacts to a call in the first half against the Golden State Warriors at Target Center. Mandatory Credit: Jesse Johnson-USA TODAY Sports (Jesse Johnson/Usa Today Sports)

One of the wildest finishes to a game this NBA season prompted two of the leagues biggest stars to unload on the officiating.

The Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Golden State Warriors, 131-130, on Friday, escaping with a home win over the back-to-back champs thanks in part to two disputed foul calls involving Kevin Durant during the final minute of overtime.

Afterward, in statements that are likely to draw fines from the league office, Durant and Stephen Curry singled out by name members of the three-man officiating crew of Marat Kogut, Leon Wood and Mike Callahan.

Marat? Is that his name? He was the best player on the floor tonight, Durant said.

Youd have to ask the MVP of the night, Marat Kogut, Curry added, when asked to compare the two officiating decisions.

An 11-2 Warriors run during the final 95 seconds of regulation precipitated the postgame fury. After trailing 128-119, Curry hit back-to-back three-pointers, Draymond Green added a putback and the Timberwolves missed two free throws to make it a one-possession game with six seconds left.

Golden State inbounded the ball to Durant, who was quickly fouled by Keita Bates-Diop as he received the pass. Durant immediately went from the catch into his shooting motion, though, and drained a three-pointer.

The Warriors argued for a shooting foul, which would have set up a possible game-winning four-point play for Durant. Instead, Kogut ruled that Bates-Diops foul occurred before Durants shooting motion.

[Kogut is] so good with his whistle they knew [Bates-Diop] was going to foul me and he called it right before I shot the ball, Durant said. Hes one of the greatest refs of all time.

Following a timeout, the Warriors inbounded the ball to Curry, who drained a turnaround three-pointer with 0.5 seconds left. While celebrating the shot, Curry ran down the court and pointed directly at Kogut in a clear expression of his disagreement with the earlier call.

Even then, the madness was only half over. On Minnesotas ensuing inbound play, Karl-Anthony Towns flashed open going toward the basket with Durant trailing him. As Anthony Tollivers pass sailed over Towns, Wood whistled Durant for a foul because he was holding Townss waist. That call put Towns to the line, where he netted a game-winning free throw.

Durant argued in his postgame comments that the game should have proceeded to double overtime because his contact was minor and because the pass to Towns was uncatchable.

Kevin Durant shares everything he thinks about the calls pic.twitter.com/Zo5bGXohKH  Mark Medina (@MarkG_Medina) March 30, 2019

Can you be physical like that late in the game? I didnt extend my arms on the push, he said. I didnt grab. I didnt impede anybodys movement. Plus, the ball was already out of bounds. Would you call it that way? My little brother probably wouldnt have called that one. They should have let us play. We should still be playing right now.

Later, in an Instagram comment, Durant added: Great call, Leon.

Warriors Coach Steve Kerr backed up Durant on both calls during his postgame news conference.

Kevin should have been at the line shooting a free throw to win the game, Kerr said of the first call. I was disappointed with the way we lost control of the game and disappointed with the officiating at the end. . . . He caught, he shot, its a four-point play. I dont know what else to say. Kind of mind-boggling. In any league, thats a good bucket and a free throw. Any league, not just the NBA.

On the second call, Kerr added that the lob [to Towns] was going 10 feet over the rim and therefore shouldnt have been a foul on Durant. Like Durant and Curry, Kerrs comments likely will provoke a fine.

Curry, who finished with a game-high 37 points and 11 three-pointers, was then asked whether he felt the second foul call was made in response to the Warriors celebration after his game-tying three.

Steph Curry: Youd have to ask the MVP of the night, (referee) Mark Kogut. pic.twitter.com/x3jlOaNflz  Anthony Slater (@anthonyVslater) March 30, 2019

If thats the case, its indicative of the entire game: not officiating the game itself, letting emotions get in the way with whatever kind of agenda they have coming in, he replied. We should have been way ahead in the second half by playing better, but [the refs should] let the game decide [itself]. thats just unfortunate.

As a final thought, the two-time MVP added that the refereeing crew had been quick to whistle Green for a technical foul earlier in the game.

The fact that Draymond got a tech for saying Oh, we cant talk to you all tonight? is kind of embarrassing, Curry said. Were supposed to have that communication. No one was being demonstrative or disrespectful. . . . As long as youre not cussing somebody out or being disrespectful, that communication should be there.

Read more from The Post:

Inside Chase Center, the Warriors billion-dollar, privately financed San Francisco arena

The Bucks may have shown the NBA how to stop James Harden

Jarrett Culvers NBA draft stock is soaring  maybe into the top five

Boston Celtics give fan two-year ban for verbal abuse toward DeMarcus Cousins

RIP BBB: Lonzo Ball covers up Big Baller Brand tattoo




Ty Jerome, left, and De'Andre Hunter will face Purdue for a trip to the Final Four. (Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images)

No. 1 seed Virginia will face No. 3 seed Purdue in the South Region final. Heres what you need to know.

When: 8:49 p.m. Eastern.

Where: KFC Yum! Center, Louisville.

TV: TBS (Brian Anderson, Chris Webber and Allie LaForce).

Odds: Virginia minus-4.5

How they got here: Virginia (32-3) earned a share of the ACC regular season title before losing to Florida State in an ACC tournament semifinal, breaking a nine-game win streak. The top-seeded Cavaliers beat No. 16 seed Gardner-Webb, 71-56, after some early struggles. They beat No. 9 seed Oklahoma, 63-51, in the second round, and survived against No. 12 seed Oregon, 53-49, in the Sweet 16.

Purdue (26-9) started 6-5 before rallying to finish second in the Big Ten, but was upset by Minnesota in the tournament quarterfinals. The third-seeded Boilermakers beat No. 14 Old Dominion in the first round of the NCAA tournament, 61-48. They crushed defending national champion Villanova in the second round, 87-61, and beat No. 2 seed Tennessee in overtime, 99-94.

Elite Eight history: Virginia is in the Elite Eight for the seventh time and first time since 2016. The Cavaliers played in the Final Four in 1981 and 1984. Purdue is in the Elite Eight for the fifth time and first time since 2000. The Boilermakers are 2-2 in this round, with Final Four appearances in 1969 and 1980.

Fast facts: Virginias 32 wins are the most in school history. . . . Kihei Clark equaled his career highs with 12 points and six assists in Thursdays win over Oregon. . . . The Cavs have won 61 games in a row when leading at halftime and 11 straight games when holding opponents under 50 points. . . . The Cavaliers are 5-1 all-time at KFC Yum! Center. . . . Virginia launched 33 three-point attempts against Oregon, a season high, and attempted just five free throws, equaling a season low. . . . Purdues Carsen Edwards has 182 career points in the NCAA tournament, the most of any player in the Elite Eight. . . . Matt Haarms was the first player to lead the Big Ten in field goal shooting and blocks since Greg Oden in 2007. . . . Purdues Ryan Cline and Virginias Kyle Guy are former AAU teammates. . . . Purdue has never beaten a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament (0-6 all time). . . . The Boilermakers are the first team to ever make at least 15 three-pointers in consecutive NCAA tournament games.

They said it: Hes going to be mad I said this, but I made him fall. I crossed him over pretty bad when we played him in high school. So I remember that vividly.  Virginias Kyle Guy on Purdues Ryan Cline, a high school friend and rival.

Going through what we did [last year], losing and all those things, I told the team this, and youve heard me say it before, it created a fire in me that wanted to become a better coach and pursue trying to get these guys to as far as they can, a Final Four, national championship. Its burning hot, but it did something I think maybe as significant or greater. It made me realize that if that never does happen, Ill still be okay. Because Ive been blessed beyond what I deserve.  Virginia Coach Tony Bennett.

To me, its just a basketball game. Its not that big a deal. It just isnt. Whats the big deal? Like, handle it. Youve had 35 of them. Go out and play the game and have fun.  Purdue Coach Matt Painter.

Elite Eight schedule

Saturdays games

Anaheim (West Region)

No. 1 Gonzaga vs. No. 3 Texas Tech, 6:09 p.m., TBS

Louisville (South Region)

No. 1 Virginia vs. No. 3 Purdue, 8:49 p.m., TBS

Sundays games

Kansas City (Midwest Region)

No. 2 Kentucky vs. No. 5 Auburn, 2:20 p.m., CBS

Washington (East Region)

No. 1 Duke vs. No. 2 Michigan State, 5:05 p.m., CBS

Read more

Dont sleep on the Cavaliers, no matter how hard they make it to stay awake

Its easy to criticize top-seeded Virginias ponderous style, columnist Jerry Brewer writes, but you cant argue with the results: a berth in the Elite Eight.

With Carsen Edwards, Purdue always has a shot. Lots of them, in fact.

The prolific guard says he doesnt think about shooting slumps, not about the torrid performance that drove the Boilermakers to their third straight Sweet 16.

Kyle Guy, shooting through a slump, is the heart of brainy Virginia

The guard has been his teams insightful spokesman all season, but if they want to break through to the Final Four, he needs to break out of a shooting slump.

Hes a killer: Virginias Kihei Clark might be small, but he delivers big plays

Diminutive freshman guard shows poise beyond his years in helping the top-seeded Cavaliers reach the brink of first Final Four berth since 1984.

Jarrett Culvers NBA draft stock is soaring  maybe into the top five

A largely overlooked recruit out of high school, the Texas Tech guards profile has risen with a breakout sophomore season and a sensational NCAA tournament.

Gonzagas frontcourt stars reach Elite Eight, but leave NBA scouts divided

The Bulldogs Rui Hachimura and Brandon Clarke have garnered all-conference honors, but the junior forwards remain divisive NBA prospects.

Gregg Nigls perfect NCAA tournament bracket is busted  all the way to 348th place.

He got 49 straight picks correct, but took a hard tumble Thursday night.




Capitals right wing Brett Connolly is a "game-time decision" with an illness. (John McDonnell/The Washington Post)

TAMPA  A mysterious illness working its way through the Washington Capitals locker room has taken its latest victim. Forward Brett Connolly is considered a game-time decision for Saturday nights game against the Tampa Bay Lightning after he wasnt feeling well enough to participate in the teams morning skate, according to Coach Todd Reirden. Connolly is the fourth player on the team to fall ill in the past eight days.

A little bit of adversity again so its about finding a way to work through it, Reirden said. Itll be a game-time decision, see how he does the rest of the day.

It started with Carl Hagelin last Friday; he was a late scratch against the Minnesota Wild with an illness. The next day, center Evgeny Kuznetsov was sent home from the teams practice facility for the same reason, but he then played on Sunday. Forward T.J. Oshie was under the weather Thursday and didnt play against the Carolina Hurricanes, but hell be back in the lineup Saturday.

[On the precipice of another 50-goal season, Capitals Alex Ovechkin is getting his due]

This would be the first game Connolly has missed all season. Hes having a career year with 22 goals and 23 assists, and if hes out Saturday, winger Andre Burakovsky is expected to take his third-line right wing spot. The Lightning have already clinched the Presidents Trophy with the NHLs best record, but this game could have some standings implications for the Capitals. Washington has a three-point lead on the New York Islanders for first place in the Metropolitan Division, and the Islanders host Buffalo on Saturday night.

Between our medical staff and our trainers, they do a really good job disinfecting everything, Reirden said. Its just been strange how its gone like this, one by one. Its nice you can replace one guy at a time; its when you get six or seven guys sick that you get in trouble. Especially this late in the season, we dont need to be dealing with this. But were fine in a way and its opening up some chances for others.

Caps expected lineup:



Ovechkin-Backstrom-Wilson

Vrana-Kuznetsov-Oshie

Hagelin-Eller-Burakovsky

Stephenson-Dowd-Boyd



Djoos-Carlson

Orlov-Niskanen

Orpik-Jensen



Holtby to start  Isabelle Khurshudyan (@ikhurshudyan) March 30, 2019

Read more from The Post:

On the precipice of another 50-goal season, Capitals Alex Ovechkin is getting his due

With Michal Kempny down, Capitals look to Nick Jensen to step up

Capitals clinch postseason spot with win over Hurricanes in possible playoff preview

Caps jerk Evgeny Kuznetsov kindly suggests that curmudgeon Don Cherry shut his mouth

President Trump welcomes Capitals, encourages them toward a second Stanley Cup




When Bryce Harper returns to Nats Park, he'll face a familiar foe on the mount: Max Scherzer. (Matt Slocum/AP)

The Washington Nationals are going with Max Scherzer against the Philadelphia Phillies on Tuesday, so they can keep their ace on regular rest with a surplus of early-season off days.

And that decision carries even more significance than usual, at least for fans and television viewers. Scherzer will face Bryce Harper in his return to Washington.

Scherzer threw 7 innings and 109 pitches in a 2-0 loss to the New York Mets on Thursday. Manager Dave Martinez originally had Scherzer making his second start against the Phillies on Wednesday  with Anibal Sanchez making his Nationals debut a day before  but the pitchers have been flipped as Washington plans to keep a four-man rotation for the first two weeks of the year. Scherzer will have a normal four days between starts and welcome Harper back to Nationals Park after he signed a 13-year, $330 million deal with the Phillies in February.

[Busloads of Phillies fans are coming to Nationals Park for Bryce Harpers return]

If it is with the Phillies, hey, we got to face him, Scherzer said Feb. 28, as news of Harpers signing was breaking on social media. Itll be fun.

Now that fun will come a day earlier than expected. It is hard to place too much meaning on April games, especially since the season stretches through the spring, summer and into the fall. But Harper, once the Nationals homegrown franchise player, will step into the box against one of the best pitchers in the world, his teammate of three seasons, Washingtons anchor and the pulse of its clubhouse. That will mean more than enough. Clear your schedule for just after 7 p.m. on Tuesday.

Read more on the Nationals:

Trea Turners three-steal opener indicates just how long his base-running leash is

Boswell: In opener, Nats show that, fundamentally, not much has changed

Svrluga: When it comes to Anthony Rendon, lock him up  for the sake of the Nationals future

The experts believe the Nationals will make the postseason

Nonstop: Max Scherzer keeps getting better with age

Nats raised their food game at Nats Park, but you better bring your wallet


Weve all got a few favorite ingredients that are always in our refrigerators or cabinets  things that can both enliven an ordinary dish as a garnish and form the basis of a meal. For me, one of those secret weapons is kimchi.

Korean in origin, kimchi is a fermented mlange of vegetables, often centered on cabbage and radishes, though you might find some versions with carrots, scallions or other vegetables. Its spicy, salty and definitely funky, thanks to that fermentation. Some versions use seafood-based ingredients, but vegan varieties are not hard to find either. Excellent local or small-batch brands abound these days (Number 1 Sons in the District is my favorite), although almost any decent grocery store will carry at least one type. We even have a recipe for making your own, if youre up for it.

[How to make your best biscuits by mastering the basics]

Im a fan of using kimchi in eggs, grilled cheese and tacos, just to name a few. Start experimenting with how you can incorporate it into your everyday staples, and check out one of these recipes from our archives:

Sesame-Chili Salsa, above. This condiment is a manageable step above what you would get if you decided to just put plain kimchi on top of your, say, tacos. With a generous amount of scallions, sesame oil, sesame seeds and soy sauce, the salsa would be great with any sort of grilled meat, too.



(Stacy Zarin Goldberg for The Washington Post; food styling by Amanda Soto/The Washington Post)

Steel-Cut Oats With Kimchi. Kimchi, its not just for dinner! If youre tired of maple syrup and fruit on your breakfast oatmeal, go this savory route, which also features mushrooms, fried onions and runny fried eggs. Then again, oats make a satisfying dinner, too. No matter when you eat it, youll love the superb texture created by cooking steel-cut oats in your Instant Pot or other multicooker.

[Your takeout grain bowl has nothing on these creamy, savory oats]



(Deb Lindsey for The Washington Post; food styling by Bonnie S. Benwick/The Washington Post)

Pork and Broccolini Stir-Fry With Kimchi. This lean and fast dinner from Ellie Krieger proves how kimchi can add some excitement to otherwise potentially humdrum ingredients. If youre rather not use pork, substitute chicken or beef sirloin.



(Deb Lindsey for The Washington Post)

Mac and Kimcheese With Mushrooms. Miles away from the boxed stuff, this riff on mac and cheese is one of my favorite Food section recipes. Theres more prep involved than your typical homemade mac  roasting mushrooms, charring a bell pepper, chopping the kimchi  but I promise the effort is worth it. Plus, a lot of the work can be done in advance.

[We tried 20 store-bought mac and cheese brands to determine which is the best (and the absolute worst)]



(Goran Kosanovic for The Washington Post)

Korean Soft Tofu Stew. Let the kimchi really shine in this comforting, vibrant stew. Youll often see gochujang, a chili paste that is another Korean staple, called for in recipes that also use kimchi. Its getting much easier to find in supermarkets these days.



(Goran Kosanovic for The Washington Post)

Kimchi-Braised Chicken. Bust out the slow cooker for this main course, which uses both the kimchi and its juices to tenderize the chicken and form a mellowed sauce. Pop the finished dish in the refrigerator overnight and youll get even better flavors.

More from Voraciously:

7 recipes that prove scallions are much more than a garnish

These 5 savory tarts are the versatile, company-worthy dishes designed for your weekend

The path to homemade, no-knead crusty bread goes through your Dutch oven


Columnist

Matching my Type A personality, Ive always had a Type A menstrual cycle  textbook, punctual, predictable to the hour. When I went into the bathroom one morning early this winter and didnt need a tampon, I knew I was pregnant. Five minutes later, two pink lines confirmed it.

Sometime later, I woke with cramps and back pain and a text from my doctors office. My scheduled sonogram had been canceled  bad weather. Immediately, I left a message with the answering service: Will the office open by the afternoon? Im experiencing pain; I think something is wrong. The doctor who called back was kind and professional and wondered, I think, whether I was an overly nervous first-timer. Cramps can be common, she said reassuringly. I should be concerned only if there was a lot of blood.

It turns out my miscarriage was Type A, too. I hung up the phone and promptly started to bleed.

My job as a columnist is to write about gender. In general, in the specific, in the way we talk about it or dont talk about it. When I got the position, a friend joked that I was now a Professional Woman, as in, a portion of my paid vocation involved being female and thinking about what it meant.

I never viewed my work so personally, not until the day after the bleeding began, when the nurse handed me a paper gown and motioned toward the exam table. All at once, what was happening felt specifically ladyish: the cramps, the stirrups, the matter-of-fact kindness of the office staff, the implied secrecy of the ordeal. It happens to more women than youd expect, the nurse told my husband and me. Its one of those things nobody likes to talk about.

I nodded, and mentally planned how to not talk about it. How to excuse my work absence by claiming the flu  we hadnt told many people about the pregnancy. How to spare everyone else the messiness.

Meanwhile, the journalist part of me was mentally scrolling through the hundreds of women and men during my career who had not spared me their messiness. Who had let me into their stories, who had allowed me into their weddings and HIV tests, their abortions and church services, and who had talked with me about their sexual assaults, their abuse, their triumphs and traumas.

Ive been thinking a lot about my job. Ive been thinking about how the decade I spent as a reporter provided an asymmetrical intimacy  asking for other peoples experiences while never sharing my own. And, it costs something to share your story. Its hard. People are never sure whether reporters will tell them the right way.

Ive been wondering whether writing about gender should require me to mine my own experiences with it.

Being a person having a miscarriage does not feel like being a journalist writing about it; it does not lend itself to rational thought.

It lends itself to thoughts such as: Did this happen because I took a couple of Excedrin for a migraine the day before? Because I shoveled snow that morning, or cleaned the tub with Clorox instead of organic baking soda?

Was it because the pregnancy was a surprise, and it had taken my husband and me the better part of a month to wrap our minds around it? My initial panic was over weird, frivolous things: Wed finally bought a sleeper sofa for the spare room and now wed have to make it a nursery instead. One time, during a slap-happy conversation about Washingtons insane day-care fees, Id joked, We cant do it! Maybe the pregnancy will just vanish?

I laughed when I said it, but inside, here is what I was picturing: the rocking chair that could replace the sofa, Halloween with a young Hermione Granger, the boutonniere of a gawky kid at prom. I was picturing a wish.

Sadness is a complete emotion, a multivitamin of an emotion. Even when you fully understand that yours is minor compared to that of others.

A friend texted an article while I was writing this paragraph: Pregnant teacher speaks out after being stabbed multiple times during carjacking. My god, I thought. Nothing that terrible happened to me.

A colleague wrote a brave, wrenching article about her stillbirth, and how social networks assumed she was still pregnant. My god, I thought when I read it, my hurt was so mundane.

What are we looking for when we tell stories? Do stories deserve to be told when theyre mundane and happen to lots of women? Should a gender columnist write about the extraordinary, or should she also try to talk frankly about the regular, common sadnesses that are discussed mostly in whispers?

Is that the job  to figure out how we fit together, to search for the secret undercurrents of emotion that run through all of humanity?

In the end, what complicated the sadness for me was kindness. When I eventually emailed my boss, I didnt invent the flu. I told her what had happened, feeling inexplicably embarrassed  me and my dumb lady pain  but she wrote back, not embarrassed. The next day, she sent the loveliest crate of oranges and pears.

My mother sent flowers. My father sent four boxes of cherry cordials. My in-laws sent chocolate; my best friend, knowing Id find comfort in numbers, sent her dissertation, on reproductive loss. My husband, grieving himself, was still the one to go out in a blizzard to buy Tylenol and walk the dog and search for vegetarian matzo ball soup.

I took two sick days  and thank god I have a job with sick days, and thank god I needed only two of them, and thank god I have health insurance and money for lab tests  surrounded by the type of unfathomable, undeserved kindness that centers the universe when its most off-keel.

Here is a thing people may not realize. A miscarriage takes days. It can take weeks. It seems like its instantaneous because its always talked about in the past tense: I had a miscarriage. But as time passed, I thought about how I could address it in the present tense. To the telemarketer on the phone: Not now. Im bleeding. To a co-worker needling me about a deadline: Could this hold until next week? Im waiting for a wish to slowly ebb out of my body.

At one point, I sat in the bedroom thinking about how if this were a novel, now is when Id eat ice cream. But I couldnt fathom dessert; wed bought apple fritters a few days before when I was still pregnant. Id eaten half of one; the rest were still sitting reproachfully on the counter.

What I could fathom doing in that moment was watching a comic book movie, something with fight scenes and quippy dialogue. I could fathom Iron Man bantering with Captain America, and I could fathom nothing else.

When I went downstairs, my husband had listlessly turned on the television. What was playing on cable, in the tenderest and oddest of mercies, was Marvels The Avengers.

So we sat and watched. I had a miscarriage and we watched The Avengers. The dog needed another walk, and my sister called, and I thought about the kindness and sadness and messiness that binds us all together, and I bled, and bled, and we watched The Avengers and I admired the sheen in Chris Hemsworths hair.

Monica Hesse is a columnist writing about gender and its impact on society. For more visit wapo.st/hesse.




George Clooney attends an event held in New York by the United Nations General Assembly in September 2016. (Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images)

Actor George Clooney called for the boycott of nine hotels owned by the sultan of Brunei in an op-ed published Thursday by the industry website Deadline. The Asian nation will implement a law next week making gay sex and adultery punishable by death.

Every single time we stay at or take meetings at or dine at any of these nine hotels we are putting money directly into the pockets of men who choose to stone and whip to death their own citizens for being gay or accused of adultery, Clooney wrote. Brunei is a monarchy and certainly any boycott would have little effect on changing these laws. But are we really going to help pay for these human-rights violations?"

Though its population totals under a half-million, Brunei ranks among the wealthiest nations in the world due to its oil and natural gas production. Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah announced the new strict laws in 2014, when Brunei became the first country in its region to adopt sharia law. Homosexuality has been illegal in Brunei since it was a British colony, but the new laws specify the death penalty as a punishment.

The Brunei Investment Agency owns several luxury hotels that make up the Dorchester Collection: The Dorchester, 45 Park Lane and Coworth Park in the United Kingdom; the Beverly Hills Hotel and Hotel Bel-Air in the United States; Le Meurice and Hotel Plaza Athenee in France; Hotel Eden and Hotel Principe di Savoia in Italy. Clooney noted that many people in Hollywood previously boycotted the Los Angeles-area hotels in 2014 because of Bruneis mistreatment of the LGBTQ community, going so far as to cancel a fundraiser for the Motion Picture Retirement Home that had been held at the Beverly Hills Hotel for years.

But like all good intentions when the white heat of outrage moves on to the hundred other reasons to be outraged, the focus dies down and slowly these hotels get back to the business of business, he continued. And the Brunei Investment Agency counts on that.

(The Dorchester Collection said in a statement to The Washington Post that inclusion and diversity remain core beliefs as we do not tolerate any form of discrimination.)

Clooney has been actively involved in humanitarian work for years and vocal about human-rights violations worldwide. He and his wife, human-rights lawyer Amal Clooney, pledged $500,000 to the March for Our Lives organization last year and were honored earlier this month for their international humanitarian work at a charity gala in Edinburgh, Scotland.

Bruneis new law goes into effect Wednesday. Rachel Chhoa-Howard, Brunei researcher at Amnesty International, publicly called for the nation to immediately halt its plans and for the international community to urgently condemn Bruneis move to put these cruel penalties into practice.

Others, such as actress Jamie Lee Curtis, have reacted similarly and expressed their support for Clooneys boycott.

Ive learned over the years of dealing with murderous regimes that you cant shame them, Clooney concluded. But you can shame the banks, the financiers and the institutions that do business with them and choose to look the other way.

This post has been updated.

Read more:

Brunei makes gay sex and adultery punishable by death by stoning

Sharia law gets cool reception in Beverly Hills


Advice columnist

Dear Carolyn: I am really struggling with going back to work after having my child. I am a university professor and took one year of maternity leave. Upon returning, I discovered I am really a stay-at-home mom stuck in a career woman's body. The first semester back was what I call the worst four months of my life. Full-on severe depressive symptoms.

Christmas break, counseling and rejuggling courses and workload (and some unpaid leave on the horizon) have helped somewhat. But these are just temporary fixes and every day I hate this bizarre (to me) game of leaving my child to be raised by others.

Complicating matters is that I am starting to feel my husband doesn't like the new me and just wishes I would be practical and do what's needed to get through the day. He is also nervous about my upcoming unpaid leave, which is my lifeline right now!

How can I just embrace working motherhood and day care and be the competent juggling working mom my husband wants me to be, and that everyone else seems to be able to pull off?

 Struggling

Struggling: There is no everyone else.

Isnt the beating heart of every social movement the demand to be treated as an individual, instead of locked into someone elses idea of who you are and how you should be treated based solely on the group youre identified with?

Forcing yourself out of the house because youre a career woman is, by that measure, just as perverse as it was for women to be limited to menial jobs just for being female or be designated homemakers just for having husbands or kids.

If you need the money or benefits or job security or career traction, then thats a different story. But thats a story you and your husband can also revisit based on the new information your feelings have given you. Finances, standard of living and ambitions arent fixed quantities, so you can adjust them as it makes sense to.

As for your husband, I am starting to feel where he stands is not the same thing as knowing where he stands.

So the sensible thing to embrace isnt one institution or another, but instead the genuine wants and needs of the genuine members of your family: you, spouse, child. Discuss it, own it, reconcile it, figure it out.

And also know that now is really just for now, however you structure it; life with babies changes almost as fast as they do.

Dear Carolyn: I live alone in my house, and we're planning for my amazing girlfriend to move in with me in a few months.

I have some serious worries though. She works from home, and there is an extra bedroom for that, but I love time alone at home. I'm a serious introvert, and I really need time alone at home. I work outside the home, and when she moves in, I will literally never get time alone at home. I'm dreading this. Is there a way to fix it?

 To Live Together or Not?

To Live Together or Not?: Amazing is of little value unless shes amazing for you.

What better way  and time  to learn whether she is than to say to her now what you fear, want, need? Exactly. No minced words. Good luck.




The New York City Ballet will perform Balanchines Symphony in C during its run at the Kennedy Center next week. (Paul Kolnik)

Dance critic

When a choreographer dies, the art left behind is imperiled, no matter what steps have been taken to protect it.

This sobering fact is on my mind in light of the New York City Ballets performances next week at the Kennedy Center of two ballets by George Balanchine, in addition to works by Jerome Robbins, Justin Peck, Gianna Reisen and Kyle Abraham. At the same time, theres a cloud over the guardians of Balanchines ballets: The trustees of the Balanchine Trust, which licenses Balanchines nearly 100 extant ballets around the world, have been accused by one of their own of mismanagement.

Balanchine, who died in 1983, would surely be surprised by both. Divorced and childless at the end of his life, he had to be talked into writing a will, and he didnt believe his ballets would be worth anything once he was gone. He couldnt have known that his works would grow in popularity after his death, that they were destined to add refinement and sophistication to ballet programs everywhere and that they would delight audiences for decades to come.

Perhaps he didnt even believe that NYCB, the company he founded with impresario Lincoln Kirstein, could continue without him. When Balanchine finally wrote his will, he left no ballets to the company or its school, the School of American Ballet.

[After a year of upheaval, New York City Ballet names new leadership team]



George Balanchine. (Tanaquil Le Clercq)

Balanchine didnt seem to want any single power over his works. He parceled out the rights to his ballets among more than a dozen dancers and friends, including Robbins and ballerinas Karin von Aroldingen, Tanaquil Le Clercq, Patricia McBride and Suzanne Farrell. He left the bulk of his works to Von Aroldingen, Le Clercq (his last wife) and his longtime secretary, Barbara Horgan.

It was a very messy will, says Horgan, 86. She founded the Balanchine Trust in 1987 as a one-stop shop for companies and student groups seeking permission to dance his ballets  works such as Symphony in C and Kammermusik No. 2, which are on the upcoming NYCB program in Washington, and more.

[Former ballerina takes legal action against managers of Balanchines ballets]

Yet according to Susan Gluck, a trustee and former NYCB dancer, Horgan only made things worse. Gluck filed a 136-page petition last month in New York Surrogates Court, seeking an accounting of how the trust manages its finances. She says she has discovered that all the rights to the Balanchine ballets have been taken out of the trust and moved into two private Delaware companies that Horgan controls as the general partner, with Paul Epstein, a lawyer who helped Horgan establish the trust, as her successor.

My petition is focused on financial matters, Gluck says. I believe that there are things that dont add up here and Id like to get the information to clarify the situation.

If I told you that Beethovens, Mozarts, or Picassos body of work was controlled by his personal assistant and then her own hand-picked lawyer, and contractually could come to be controlled by that lawyers housekeeper, youd probably giggle, and then youd get very scared. Yet I am telling you that . . . could happen to all of Balanchines timeless masterpieces.



Gluck says she was forced to file the petition because she couldnt get access to complete financials, because all the rights to the ballets, both economic and artistic, were transferred to those partnerships when they were signed by Barbara and Paul in 1990.



Horgan says that the trust sends financial records to the heirs every year and that she has given the information to Gluck. Whatever we showed Susan, it wasnt enough, she says. We dont do a spreadsheet.

[In wake of suit, audiences and funders should demand answers]

Horgan confirmed that she is the general partner of the Delaware partnerships and that Epstein is her successor. The partnerships were put together, she says, to save the heirs and beneficiaries from paying state and local taxes. The partnerships will dissolve, she says, as the Balanchine ballets go into the public domain, and as the heirs die.

Horgan says Balanchines works will likely come into the public domain in 2053. Until then, her successor is a matter of key importance to the stability of an evanescent art. Unlike a painting or the written score of a symphony, a dance is uniquely fragile because there is no foolproof way to preserve it and steps are easily forgotten. Even a complete work can be changed in subtle ways so that its vivacity is flattened. The petition raises a thorny question: Who is truly in charge of this peerless treasury of artworks for the next decades?

[Turmoil continues even after New York City Ballet chief resigns]

Dance, to paraphrase the Roman poet Catullus, is all but written in wind and running water. Much of the worlds dance catalogue has vanished. Choreography from recent years can easily go the same way if its not continuously performed, or if an inexpert person finds himself in control of it and changes it, or decides to halt permission to dance it.

The Balanchine situation harks back to the greatest choreographic debacle of recent years: the shutdown of the Martha Graham Dance Company in 2000 over a dispute with Grahams heir, Ron Protas, a former photographer who befriended her in her last decades. Protas claimed he owned all the rights to her works.



New York City Ballets Teresa Reichlen and Jared Angle perform Kammermusik No. 2, by Balanchine, another of his works that will be performed at the Kennedy Center. (Paul Kolnik)

Graham, like Balanchine one of the greatest artists of the 20th century, led her pioneering modern-dance company for six decades, until her death in 1991, when Protas began overseeing rehearsals. After dancers complained about his micromanagement of artistic matters, the board of the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance fired him. Protas then barred the company from performing her dances; the company had to cancel tour dates and eventually closed down.

We empathize with the dancers frustration over this situation, but the root cause lies with a minority group who has usurped control of the Martha Graham Center, Protass attorney at the time, Michael Quinn, told The Washington Post. Whatever feelings there are about [Protas] as controversial, the quality of the company was very high when he was directing it.

Two years later, a judge ruled that the overwhelming majority of Grahams works were owned by the Graham Center under the works for hire doctrine, which holds that she was an employee of the entity she created and so her creations belonged to it. Finally, dancers could perform them again, but the two-year hiatus had the dance world wondering whether Grahams legacy had perished along with her.

Its difficult even in a stable situation to maintain a dance repertoire without the creators oversight. In Balanchines case, there are a number of former dancers who, under the auspices of the Balanchine Trust, teach his ballets around the globe. But even among them, questions arise about what version is best, as Balanchine updated and tweaked his works from time to time.

And even in the case of such renowned masters as Balanchine and Graham, issues of succession and inheritance can arise, and with them the risk of disaster. In Grahams case, rights issues and one persons claim of control almost snuffed out her company and erased her works from the stage.

Balanchines work is too important for its management to be happening in the dark. The processes need to be conducted in full public view, for these are not only Balanchines works were talking about. They are American treasures.

Read more by Sarah L. Kaufman:

Dancemaker Bill T. Jones isnt always sure art is useful. Heres why he keeps at it.

The dances in Fortnite have become nearly as contagious as the game

Hermes bags, hugs and the occasional stalker: When ballet fans go overboard.




Bill T. Joness Analogy/Dora: Tramontane, part of his Analogy Trilogy. (Paul B Goode)

Dance critic

Unquenchable optimism becomes a Jewish nurses salvation during the Holocaust in Analogy/ Dora: Tramontane, a true account of geographical and moral boundary-crossing that brazenly crosses borders of its own.

In this fascinating and challenging experiment in storytelling by the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Company, dancers speak, shout, change the scenery and dart around the Kennedy Center Eisenhower Theater stage  and sometimes they do all this at once. Theyre accompanied by a fine pianist (Emily Manzo) and an accordionist (Nick Hallett, who composed the original score and also sings). All of these layers combine to tell the sprawling, inspiring story of Dora  who happens to be Joness mother-in-law, still alive at 98  and who as a teenager lost much of her family to the Nazis. She sweet-talked her way into Vichy France, kept countless Jews from being deported to German death camps, wrestled with guilt over those she couldnt save, and somehow kept her soul intact.

How did she do this? One of the dancers asks this for us, holding a microphone up for the performer who has taken on the role of Dora. Lightness of spirit, she replies. Shes stretched out on her side like a sunbathing cat as shes hoisted overhead by other cast members. Thats how I could endure all that.

One of the charms of this piece, which is just over an hour, is the plain-spoken dialogue. Thats what Jones started with: transcripts of recorded conversations with his mother-in-law, which he intended as a gift to his husband, Bjorn Amelan. (Amelan also is Joness longtime artistic collaborator, who created the elegantly simple movable panels and other elements of the decor.) It turned out that Jones had a remarkable account on his hands, of an ordinary-extraordinary person navigating through the horrors of history with a straightforward, openhearted approach. In Analogy/Dora, the dancers take turns picking up the mic and taking on the characters of Dora and Jones, one asking the questions, the other answering, and the story moves back and forth in time, like a conversation over dinner.

[Dancemaker Bill T. Jones isnt always sure art is useful. Heres why he keeps at it.]

This is the first of the three sections in Analogy Trilogy, which Jones created with his associate artistic director, Janet Wong, in collaboration with the dancers. (The various sections premiered between 2015 and 2017.) The two other parts follow at the Kennedy Center on the next two nights. The second part is Analogy/Lance: Pretty a.k.a. the Escape Artist, which focuses on Joness nephew Lance Briggs, a former dancer who spun off course into a life of drugs and prostitution, yet still tried to make something of himself as an artist.

The third, Analogy/Ambros: The Emigrant, is inspired by a character in German author W.G. Sebalds book The Emigrants  a man who ran in glamorous circles in the years before World War I, then ended up in a mental institution in Upstate New York, willingly undergoing electroshock therapy as a way to end his life.



The company in Analogy/Dora: Tramontane. (Paul B Goode)

What these brief, multilayered dramas all have in common are first-person accounts told to a curious interviewer, a series of questions and answers that examine a life of survival.

Jones is known for taking on bold content  such social malignancies as homophobia, racism and fraught histories of all sorts. But hes just as fearless in his approaches to form. It has been a while since weve seen a pure-dance work from him, and he recently edited the word dance out of his troupes name  its simply a company, no longer genre-specific. This opens up more territory for him, as he demonstrates in Dora.

The story is not always easy to follow, but what emerges is a deeply felt experience and an often stunningly, poetically beautiful one. At the end of Dora, theres a joyous dance party in fading light. Shadows loomed behind the dancers, dwarfing them, but they kept bounding, kicking, throwing their hands in the air and cheering, and the last sound we heard, even after darkness had engulfed the stage, was Doras voice, singing about the sun, moon and stars.

Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Company performs Analogy/Ambros: The Emigrant on Saturday at the Kennedy Center Eisenhower Theater. $29-$79. 202-467-4600. kennedy-center.org.

Read more by Sarah L. Kaufman:

Who really controls Balanchines ballets? The dance world deserves to know.

After a year of upheaval, New York City Ballet names new leadership team

When ballet fans go overboard




Illustrations by Tosa Mitsunobu, 14341525, with text by Various calligraphers. "Tale of Genji Album of Illustrations and Calligraphic Excerpts." Japan, Muromachi period (13921573), 1509. (Harvard Art Museums/ Arthur M. SackIer Museum/Hofer Collection of the Arts of Asia)

Art critic

Imagine a world where the things in life that count most  pillow talk, matters of the heart, adjustments of power both subtle and sudden  are continually glimpsed as if through a screen, or around a corner. A world where the struggle for status and the great erotic campaigns of early adulthood are pictured obliquely against an autumnal backdrop and a mood of poignant fade-out.

This is the world of The Tale of Genji, an 11th-century classic of world literature set in an imperial palace in what is todays Kyoto, under an emperor whose prestige was great but whose power was almost entirely ceremonial.



Unidentified artist. Murasaki Shikibu. Japan, Momoyama period (1573-1615), second half of the 16th-early 17th century. (Ishiyamadera Temple)

Mitsuyasu Ykan. Hannya Noh Mask. Japan, Edo period (16151868), first half of the 17th century. (Stephen Marvin)

Written by Murasaki Shikibu, a lady-in-waiting at the court, it is a book in which, as one commentator put it, love affairs begin and end in the semidarkness, and sometimes the lovers are not even sure who their partner is.

Combining prose with short poems, The Tale of Genji is difficult to classify. But it is widely considered not only the first novel by a Japanese woman, or the first novel by a woman, but also the first novel anywhere, by anyone.

The book comes in 54 parts. A typical sentence, plucked almost at random, gives an idea of its tone: She seemed so serene and I never knew she was hurt, and my lasting feeling for her went completely to waste.

The books influence on Japanese culture is drenching and pervasive, like the influence of indigo dye on those deep blue Japanese aizome textiles. A major exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art presents more than 1,000 years of Japanese responses to Lady Murasakis masterpiece. Featuring Genji-related calligraphy, album illustrations, painted screens, Buddhist sculptures and sutra, embroidered robes, musical instruments, lacquerware, games, ukiyo-e (or floating world) prints, modern-day manga and more, the show is sheer pleasure, from first to last.



Calligraphy by Ono no zu. Paintings attributed to Tosa Mitsuyosh. Scenes and excerpts from "The Tale of Genji (Genji monogatari gaj)." Japan, Momoyama (15731615)Edo period, early 17th century. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art/Mary and Cheney Cowles Collection)

Nyoirin Kannon. Japan, late Heian period (7941185), early 11th century. Wood with gold, gold leaf; carved from a single block of wood. (Ishiyamadera Temple)

Further superlatives, though warranted, sound jarring against the hushed, hypersensitive mood the exhibition fosters. You walk in to darkened galleries through doors framed by stylized golden clouds. Those same golden clouds (known in Japan as Genji-gujo, or Genji clouds) are a constant feature of Genji illustrations. Obscuring great portions of each picture, they signal to the viewer that she is entering a fictional, aesthetic realm, where time and space are conflated, and where truths are glimpsed and alluded to rather than spelled out.

Virginia Woolf, noting that the Tale of Genji was originally read aloud, wrote that Murasakis listeners . . . were grown-up people . . . absorbed . . . in the contemplation of mans nature; how passionately he desires things that are denied; how his longing for a life of tender intimacy is always thwarted; . . . how beautiful the falling snow is, and how, as he watches it, he longs more than ever for someone to share his solitary joy. (Dont be confused by the masculine pronoun: Woolf was describing a predicament that was universal, but perhaps especially feminine.)



Butterflies (Koch), Chapter 24 from "The Tale of Genji (Genji monogatari)." Japan, Momoyama period (15731615). (The Metropolitan Museum of Art/Mary Griggs Burke Collection)

The show was organized by Melissa McCormick of Harvard University, John T. Carpenter and Monika Bincsik of the Met, and Kyoko Kinoshita of Tokyos Tama Art University. It includes the oldest illustrated Genji book, here opened to an exquisite ink line painting of the character Ukifune. She is reading a letter from her partner that accuses her of being unfaithful.

Finding herself entangled in a love triangle, says the wall text, she nervously faces her inkstone and brush as she considers how to reply. (People love to complain about wall labels, but sometimes they are pure poetry.)

Everything about The Tale of Genji and its reception is steeped in mystery. Is the book really about Prince Genji, its radiantly beautiful male hero? Or is it, as many maintain, primarily about the women in Genjis life, and their struggles for status, security and love?



Tosa Mitsuoki. "Murasaki Shikibu Composing The Tale of Genji." Japan, Edo period (16151868), 17th century. (Ishiyamadera Temple)

The fact that the tales author was female is central to its enigma and explains how it came to be written in the first place. In the 11th century, all the prestige of writing was attached to poetry composed in the classical Chinese style. That was for men. The lesser activity of writing prose journals, in a phonetic Japanese alphabet, was left to aristocratic women like Lady Murasaki.

Concocting stories was considered fundamentally frivolous and immoral. But Murasakis Tale of Genji was so self-evidently great that it was quickly accepted  and very soon revered. Subsequent generations overcame the taint of immorality by conflating the amorous character of Prince Genji with the Buddha  that other radiantly smiling prince  and by attributing a level of divinity, or at least divine inspiration, to Murasaki herself.

By the late 12th century, a legend had already formed that the aristocratic author, following a prompt from the empress, had secluded herself in a temple to write the tale, while gazing at the moons watery reflection. As she wrote, she felt simultaneously obliged to atone for her sinful activity by copying out a Buddhist sutra and offering it to the temple.

That temple, Ishiyamadera, has long been a pilgrimage site with its own so-called Genji-room. It has lent generously to the Met, which re-created aspects of the Genji-room shrine for the show. Pictures of Murasaki at a low writing desk in her characteristic pose  head slightly bent, black hair flowing over patterned robes  are complemented by a 10th-century sculpture of a bodhisattva, which women since Murasakis time have prayed to with womanly hopes: conception, safe childbirth, marital harmony.

The most popular Buddhist scripture of Murasakis day was the Lotus Sutra. Promising salvation for everyone who read it, it was linked with healing and longevity rites. So those with means commissioned lavishly decorated copies. By the late 12th century, the influence of Genji was already such that a new kind of Lotus Sutra emerged with the specific aim of rescuing its author from hell for, as McCormickwrites in the catalogue, having succumbed to the lure of seductive fictions.



Unidentified Artist. Ichiji reandai Hokeky, Fugen Bosatsu kanbotsuhon. Japan, late Heian period (7941185), 12th century. (Museum Yamato Bunkakan)

Its not clear whether one of the most precious works in the show, a Lotus Sutra from Nara, Japan  designated a Japanese National Treasure  is a specifically Genji-related sutra, one that combined excerpts from Genji with scripture from the sutra. But it is in any case a marvel to behold: Each character from the text, outlined in gold ink, is presented as a Buddha icon seated atop a lotus.

Among many beautiful objects on display is an 18th-century lacquered portable book cabinet designed to hold the books 54 separately bound chapters. Each half has drawers inscribed with the appropriate chapters titles. The sides and the top are ingeniously decorated with images of the landscape surrounding Ishiyamadera temple.

It became conventional to illustrate each chapter of Genji with a single, representative scene that viewers would recognize. Thus, a highlight of the show is the oldest extant complete set of Genji illustrations, an early 16th-century masterpiece by Tosa Mitsunobu, owned by Harvard Art Museums. Each illustration complements a page of calligraphy. The calligraphy was written by six Japanese nobleman. So the album as a whole is a collaborative, personalized version of the tale, and yet another indicator of Genjis profound hold over the Japanese imagination.

For me, the most richly suggestive piece in the exhibition is a pair of folding screens by Tosa Mitsuoki, who was the head of a painting school in the 17th century. One shows a scene from Chapter 23, when Genji visits the Akashi Ladys quarters on New Years Day only to find her absent  and yet suggestively present: There is the alluring smell of exotic incense, and her possessions are elegantly scattered around the room.

The mood is thus of ambivalence and frustrated intimacy. What is amazing about the painting is that the artist has overlaid the entire scene with translucent green horizontal stripes, so that we are made to feel as if we were voyeurs, glimpsing the scene through bamboo slats.

Content, said Willem de Kooning (in a different context, coming out of a very different tradition), is a glimpse. This painting, and this whole marvelous show, double down on that insight. Its main effect, of course, is to make you yearn for a second, longer look.

The Tale of Genji: A Japanese Classic Illuminated Through June 16 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. metmuseum.org.

Read more by Sebastian Smee:

How the Vietnam War changed art forever

Vincent van Goghs early work was mediocre. This exhibition shows how he became great.

Kids used to make up their own games. Now the games play them.




Actor Jon Voight has been named to the Kennedy Center board of trustees. (Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images)

President Trump will appoint actor Jon Voight, former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee and eight others to the Kennedy Centers board of trustees, the White House announced Wednesday.

The list of appointees  the first made by Trump since taking office  also includes Carl Lindner III, co-chief executive of American Financial Group; attorney and executive Marc I. Stern; Kelcy Warren, chief executive of Energy Transfer Partners; Heather Washburne of A.G. Hill Partners; author Karen Tucker LeFrak; hotelier Kelly Roberts; and Broadway producer Daryl Roth. Trustee and arts philanthropist Adrienne Arsht was appointed to another term.



Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, who is also the father of White House press secretary Sarah Sanders. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

The Kennedy Center board has 36 members appointed by the president and 21 designated by Congress.

[Obama names Jarrett, Rice to Kennedy Center board of trustees]

The appointees will replace David C. Bonnett, Shonda L. Rhimes, Giselle Fernandez, Norma Lee Funger, Rebecca C. Pohland, Romesh Wadhwani, Anthony Welters, Alexandra C. Stanton and Rose Kennedy Schlossberg, who are stepping down, a Kennedy Center spokeswoman said. The new appointees will serve the remainder of the six-year terms, ending Sept. 1, 2024.


SAN FRANCISCO  Millions of drivers are betting their livelihoods on Uber and Lyft. On Friday, Wall Street bet billions of dollars that the companies wont need those drivers.

Lyft and Uber, which helped pioneer the gig economy with its armies of drivers, lose massive amounts of money to pay drivers for each ride. The firms could slash their costs of each ride by as much as three-quarters by replacing human drivers with autonomous vehicles, according to the companies, turning ride-hailing into a profitable enterprise.

But widespread deployment of the technology is a decade away at best, experts say. That raises the question of whether Uber and Lyft can survive the years it will take to get there on their current business model. Lyft said it lost $911 million last year alone.

Lyft is the first of the two to sell stock to ordinary investors: it began trading on U.S. markets Friday morning, soaring as much as 20 percent in early trading before settling for an increase of 9 percent. Uber is expected to go public later this year.

Uber and Lyft are the latest Silicon Valley companies to sell a suspended belief vision of the future: The technology that could make them juggernauts doesnt exist yet.

Lyft said in a mandatory IPO filing that it wants to begin providing self-driving ride-hail trips on the app within five years. It wants a network of autonomous vehicles providing a majority of its trips within a decade. Five years after that, Lyft expects it will have purpose-built driverless vehicles on the road, not just zipping around town but also taking passengers on long-haul journeys.

We have set ambitious goals for Lyft to broadly deploy autonomous vehicle technology, the company said.

A similar sentiment pervades Lyfts chief rival, Uber, whose founder and former chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said in 2016 that self-driving technology was basically existential for the company.

For the moment, both companies are heavily dependent on thousands of drivers whose wages make up a significant chunk of their losses. Uber and Lyft lose money on each ride they facilitate. Lyft will be under shareholder pressure to trim its losses, given that public funders are unlikely to give the company the same financial runway its early adopters provided. Its listing raised $2 billion and valued the company at $24 billion.

[Uber and Lyft slashed wages. Now California drivers are protesting their IPOs.]

Some people characterize the driver business model as being nothing more than venture capitalists subsidizing peoples taxi rides around the world, said Jason Schloetzer, a professor at Georgetowns McDonough School of Business who specializes in artificial intelligence use cases. And that kind of business model can only survive so long.

Drivers represent more than cost concerns for Uber and Lyft. As driver demonstrations in California illustrated this week, they are fighting back against the dwindling cut of the fare they get  as little as 60 cents a mile in Southern California, only two cents more than the IRS reimbursement rate. And court rulings or legislation could force the companies to consider drivers as employees rather than contractors, driving up their costs by requiring them to offer benefits.

Lyft and Uber together will be able to pull this off for several quarters but they are going to have to show profitability and theyre not close," said University of Maryland strategy and entrepreneurship professor Brent Goldfarb, co-author of Bubbles and Crashes: The Boom and Bust of Technological innovation.

Stacy Brown-Philpot, the chief executive of TaskRabbit, another gig economy start-up, framed the IPOs as an opportunity.

Its going to invite an expectation of transparency and an expectation of scrutiny, which I actually think will be helpful and healthy in shaping how these companies will grow into the future, she said at a technology forum hosted by The Washington Post in San Francisco this week. I hope what then happens is that transparency allows for us to see: Heres what it takes to really build a sustainable business and also help people afford an income, a meaningful income. 

Uber and Lyft declined to comment.

A few tech companies have famously sailed to enormous wealth on the promise of paradigm-changing technology paying off after many years. Amazon two decades ago was a nascent online bookseller that had yet to realize its vision of becoming a cloud-computing juggernaut that powers the Internets one-stop retail shop, ascending to become one of the worlds most valuable public companies. The value of Google, once thought of as an Internet search company, is in fact in its artificial intelligence.

But many more have stumbled. In Silicon Valley, the earliest adopters of technology -- the ones that intrigue investors -- are not always ones that survive. Early makers of wearables, including Fitbit and Jawbone, have been eclipsed by others including Apple and Xiaomi. WebVan, once the Internets largest and best-funded grocery service, went bankrupt in 2001, but online grocery shopping eventually took off. Apple and Google developed their successful iPhone and Android smartphones on the heels of Palm and Blackberry devices had long before cornered the market on digital assistants.

Lyft has created a narrative of an imagined future, said Goldfarb. The vision is of a fleet of cars that drive themselves for less than what theyre currently paying the drivers. Thats what has to happen.

Uber, Lyft, Waymo, Ford, General Motors and a host of other companies are pouring billions of dollars into developing driverless cars, and some companies, including Lyft, have rolled out pilot programs and driverless partnerships in places such as Silicon Valley, Phoenix, Las Vegas and Pittsburgh. But there have been setbacks, including the fatal pedestrian crash involving a self-driving Uber in Arizona, which halted the companys driverless testing for nine months.

[Lyft prices IPO at $72 a share, valuing company at $24B]

Schloetzer, the Georgetown professor, sees a dichotomy between Lyfts current and envisioned realities. One is expected to prop up the other, even though the models can eventually exist in unison. He says there will certainly be places, perhaps circuitous suburban neighborhoods, where self-driving routes arent yet mapped, and humans need to take over. In city downtowns and more traveled routes, however, self-driving is more likely to arrive sooner. Meanwhile, Uber and Lyft users are living in an investor-fueled limbo, he said.

Drivers fear they are already feeling the crunch of a company under pressure to prove its capability to investors.

Theres always been an inherent tension between drivers and ride-hail companies, said Harry Campbell, a driver who also operates the Rideshare Guy blog, which tracks the industry. The companies have the ability to implement changes without any feedback from drivers, which has led to driver protests such as the recent ones in Los Angeles over a sudden change to fares.

He said for many drivers it has grown more difficult to earn consistent wages as more riders and drivers flood the system. Thats why Lyft and Uber have spent billions on incentive programs to keep drivers on the road, such as cash bonuses for completing a certain number of rides per week or month. But investors tolerance for the outlays will be tested if Lyft continues to burn through cash as it has leading into its IPO. Its losses last year erased nearly half of its sales, even as those doubled to $2.2 billion. Lyft cautioned in its public filings that it may never achieve profitability.

[Lyft Confirms What We Know and What We Dont]

Lyft and Uber have long grappled with retaining and recruiting drivers, particularly as the two ride-hailing firms have driven prices lower to attract more riders. Many drivers have bemoaned the lack of benefits such as health-care coverage, contending they should be treated as employees, and point to expenses like auto insurance and gasoline as cutting into their earnings. Some say they feel powerless to combat sudden changes to fares or other fees the companies implement.

And while safety is a motivation, the promise of autonomous vehicles is primarily about cost savings. Driverless cars could eliminate the need to pay humans at the wheel, which could enable the companies to lower fares further.

It is no secret that a fleet of autonomous vehicles has the potential to be incredibly lucrative for ride-hailing companies like Lyft and Uber, obviating the need to pay drivers, read an analysis from EquityZen, an investment firm that has invested in Lyft.

Some drivers are already envisioning a future where theyre not driving. I hope to be out of the game sooner or later  especially with the writing on the wall with autonomous cars coming, said Rebecca Stack, a driver-organizer with Gig Workers Rising, the group that protested Lyfts IPO outside a luxury San Francisco hotel this week. But in the meantime I still have rent to pay. I have mouths to feed. I have to support myself. I live in the most expensive city in the United States.




The Apple iPhone 8, Airpods, and Apple Watch sit on the AirPower charger  a prototype that will now not come to market. (David Paul Morris/Bloomberg)

Apple has nixed plans to build its much anticipated AirPower wireless charging pad, the company said Friday.

After much effort, weve concluded AirPower will not achieve our high standards, and we have canceled the project," said Dan Riccio, Apples senior vice president of hardware engineering. "We apologize to those customers who were looking forward to this launch.

The announcement marks a rare event for the hardware maker. The company announced in 2017 it would begin selling the product the following year, going so far as to release marketing photos of the device, only to delay its launch.

Rumors of the devices release persisted periodically over the past year, with articles coming out as recently as last week predicting it would hit store shelves any day. Apple held a product launch event this week where it unveiled only new services; it announced new updates of some of its hardware last week.

The news comes as Apple tries to diversify its revenue by expanding beyond hardware to sell more services. It announced three new subscription products Monday in news, video games and original video. The AirPower hiccup will no doubt raise questions about the companys ability to focus on new areas while still retaining its competitive edge in the area it has long dominated: high end computer hardware.

Apple has been pushing the idea of wireless charging to its customers. The iPhone has had wireless charging capabilities since it came out with the iPhone 8 in September 2017, and the Apple Watch has always had wireless charging. And last week, Apple released a new version of its AirPods wireless ear buds, the major improvement being wireless charging capabilities.

Third-party manufacturers make wireless charging pads that are compatible with Apples devices.

Apple has had major hardware mishaps in the past, such as when the iPhone 4s antenna did not work properly. It recently apologized for problems with the keyboard on some of its laptops. But the company rarely announces anything publicly that it does not launch.

Wireless charging is a challenging technology. Though it has been around for years, the products tend to be glitchy and the standards confusing. It could be that it will take time before the technology is commonplace enough, reliable enough and profitable enough for like Apple to produce.

Riccio said Apple is still bullish on wireless charging, saying in the statement the company is committed to push the wireless experience forward.


In its quest to develop functional  and sometimes terrifying  robots, Boston Dynamics has unleashed a veritable petting zoo of futuristic-looking machines.

In recent years, the tech company, owned by Japans SoftBank Group, has released videos showing dog-like robots unloading dishwashers and climbing stairs, galloping Bovidae-like creatures that can run move faster than Usain Bolt, and a mesmerizing humanoid robot that leaves some YouTube viewers convinced that a robot takeover is imminent.

In its latest video, the first to surface in about five months, a Boston Dynamics robot has acquired a new form, one that resembles an emu. Despite its large size  its six feet tall and weighs 231 pounds  the wheeled machine glides across a warehouse floor with ease, demonstrating its ability to pick up and move large boxes using what appear to be suction cups at the end of a long neck. Its referred to as Handle and, according to the company, was designed to carry up to 33 pounds while maneuvering in tight spaces. The robot first appeared online, though in a different form, about two years ago.

[The jogging humanoid robot video that is terrifying the Internet]

Handle is a robot that combines the rough-terrain capability of legs with the efficiency of wheels," a description of the machine on the companys website says. "It uses many of the same principles for dynamics, balance, and mobile manipulation found in the quadruped and biped robots we build, but with only 10 actuated joints, it is significantly less complex.

Wheels are fast and efficient on flat surfaces while legs can go almost anywhere: by combining wheels and legs, Handle has the best of both worlds, the description adds.

On Twitter, Boston Dynamics said the robot was an example of the companys efforts in logistics."

Boston Dynamics is starting to unveil our efforts in logistics. Find us at Promat (8 - 11 April) in Chicago to learn more - Booth S3347a @poweredbymhi #logistics #bostondynamics #ProMatShowhttps://t.co/SSK5du578V  Boston Dynamics (@BostonDynamics) March 28, 2019

On YouTube, where the video has already garnered about 800,000 views, reaction to the robot was focused on its ability to replace human workers and unleash violent chaos.

The economy revolution is starting and we should be looking for new incentives for the human race, work = money doesnt work anymore, Georgi Kirilov wrote.

Great idea, another observer from the account Sir Piglet wrote. Put more people out of work due to automation to save money. Pretty soon there will be more people out of work than there is in the workforce.

Imagine this thing picking you up by the bare skin on your stomach with its triple layered suction cups and swinging you around like a centrifuge until all the blood that is inside your body is outside of your body," Colin Furman wrote. That is how we are all going to die.

[Baristas beware: A robot that makes gourmet cups of coffee has arrived]

Boston Dynamics has become known for creating robots whose movements mimic humans and animals with a degree of accuracy that many find unnerving. The videos, which appear online every few months, generate millions of views and lively discussion full of predictions of catastrophe.

Last year, Boston Dynamics founder Marc Raibert told an audience in Germany that his team is testing the companys awkward four-legged doglike robot, SpotMini, for use in multiple industries, including security, delivery, construction and home assistance. The company says the 66-pound machine is 2 feet, 9 inches tall and is the quietest of the companys robots. It runs on electricity, has 17 joints and can operate for 90 minutes on a single charge.

Friendly nurse or nightmare-inducing machine? How culture programs our taste in robots.

Scooters are littering sidewalks and injuring pedestrians. Can this startup bring order to the chaos?

New Zealand farmers have a new tool for herding sheep: drones that bark like dogs




Twitter's Vijaya Gadde, the global lead for legal, policy, and trust and safety at the company, said the social media site intends to label some offensive speech but keep the tweets on the website if they remain in the public interest.

The next time a politician, dignitary  or perhaps a president  makes an utterance that violates Twitter standards, the message might be accompanied by a note that expands on the 280-character tweet, a top official with the company said Wednesday.

Twitter is exploring how it can annotate offensive tweets that break its rules but remain in the public interest, said Vijaya Gadde, the companys head of legal, policy, and trust and safety. Its an effort to stem offensive content and hate speech and follows comments last year by chief executive Jack Dorsey, who said he is rethinking core parts of the platform to stem harassment and other abuses.

[Jack Dorsey says hes rethinking the core of how Twitter works]

One of the things were working really closely on with our product and engineering folks is, How can we label that?  Gadde said in a response to questions from the Posts Silicon Valley correspondent, Elizabeth Dwoskin. How can we put some context around it so people are aware that that content is actually a violation of our rules and it is serving a particular purpose in remaining on the platform.

Gadde revealed the initiative at the Technology 202 Live, a Washington Post Live forum in San Francisco that serves as an extension of The Posts tech newsletter. Gadde said the efforts to provide context will serve to maintain Twitters community standards while keeping the platform a place for policy revelations and public conversation that may be in the public interest.

[Sign up to receive the Technology 202 newsletter, a daily guide to the intersection of technology and politics.]

In Twitters present iteration, she said, when we leave that content on the platform, theres no context around that, and it just lives on Twitter and people can see it, and they just assume that is the type of content or behavior thats allowed by our rules.

Though the company has an exception for newsworthiness, Twitter draws a line around content that is violent or direct threats of harm.

There is absolutely a line of a type of content, an example being a direct, violent threat against an individual that we wouldnt leave on the platform because of the danger it poses to that individual, Gadde said. But, there are other types of content that we believe are newsworthy or in the public interest that people may want to have a conversation around.

[Trumps Twitter habits are affecting how local politicians behave online]

Gadde said Twitter will not remove follower counts or other core aspects of the Twitter experience. But she hinted that those icons could be hidden from view as part of the new user experience unless a user specifically seeks them out, design changes the company is testing. Gadde said the company made the move after considering thousands of public comments that Twitter had invited on the issue last year.

President Trump, who has turned to Twitter as his preferred mechanism for rapid-fire messaging, has tested its community standards repeatedly. Dorsey has acknowledged criticism that his website had failed to stem the tide of hatred and issues such as echo chambers that had festered on his website.

[Can President Trump block his critics on Twitter? Federal appeals court weighs that issue.]

Dorsey has generally stuck to a line that Trumps comments are inherently newsworthy and, thus, should remain on the site, despite criticism that some tweets have bordered on abusive. In August, Trump called a former aide, Omarosa Manigault Newman, a dog. He has regularly used the platform to attack political enemies, such as the late senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Hillary Clinton and he has shared an image of his political foes behind bars. Trump has also retweeted unverified anti-Islam videos and has posted videos depicting, among other slights at the media, CNN being squashed by a shoe.

There are concerns that the presidents Twitter behavior has influenced politicians on the local and state level. And politicians overseas have been accused of abusing the platform with inflammatory rhetoric.

A Twitter spokeswoman said the company is looking into how it can add context to tweets that break its rules but are newsworthy, exempting them from deletion because they are in the public interest.

The company didnt provide details concerning who the new notation standard would apply to or specify the form the annotations would take.


The voice made famous by the porn star who took on the president  slightly nasal, brimming with confidence  crackled over the phone on March 20, according to a criminal complaint, with an offer a U.S. attorney would later describe as an old-fashioned shakedown.

Im not continuing to play games . . . You guys know enough now to know youve got a serious problem, celebrity attorney Michael Avenatti said, according to court documents. Two lawyers for Nike listened on the other end of the call, along with an FBI agent.

Avenatti represented a youth basketball coach who claimed he had evidence Nike had paid the families of top college basketball players, in violation of NCAA rules and, potentially, federal law. Avenatti demanded $1.5 million to buy his clients silence, according to the complaint, and another $15 million to $25 million for Avenatti to conduct an internal investigation of the company, along with fellow attorney Mark Geragos.

Its worth more in exposure to me to just blow the lid on this thing, Avenatti told the lawyers for Nike, according to the complaint. A few million dollars doesnt move the needle for me. Im just being really frank with you.

Arrested Monday on charges including extortion, bank fraud, and wire fraud, Avenatti has maintained his innocence, and claims the quotes attributed to him by the FBI unfairly portray legal, hard-nosed negotiations. Regardless of their legality, however, Avenattis threats to inflict financial damage on Nike with information about illicit payments to the families of college basketball players were regarded as laughable, on strictly economic terms, by industry experts.

[Michael Avenatti is accused of trying to extort Nike]

I think the American public knows how corrupt amateur athletics are in the U.S., particularly when it comes to basketball, said Matt Powell, senior adviser focused on sports footwear, apparel and equipment for NPD, a market research firm. I dont think it is terribly surprising to anyone who follows this stuff that Nike might have been paying some college players.

For evidence, Powell said, look no further than Nikes main competitor on the basketball shoe market: Adidas, which has been at the center of a pay-for-play scandal since late 2017 that has had no measurable impact on the companys revenue or stock value.

[From the archives: Inside the basketball black market that put Adidas in the FBIs crosshairs]

But when it came to Nike, Avenatti  who did not respond to a request for comment for this story  apparently thought similar revelations would cause the companys stock price to plummet. On a call recorded by the FBI, Avenatti told Nikes lawyers he could cause the companys market cap  essentially, the value of all Nike stock  to tumble $10 billion.

Nike has neither confirmed nor denied Avenattis allegations about payments to the families of top high school and college players. In a statement, the company said it reported Avenattis claims to federal prosecutors overseeing an ongoing investigation of corruption in college basketball.

Nike firmly believes in ethical and fair play, both in business and sports, the company said.

On Twitter this week, Avenatti has begun publicizing some of his clients allegations, providing a real-world test of exactly how damaging the information he claims he has really might be on Nikes stock. So far, the allegations have been not nearly as damaging as Avenatti predicted. Or damaging at all, really.

On Tuesday, when Avenatti started tweeting about players whose families he claimed Nike officials paid, the companys stock price rose slightly, closing at $83.37. Tuesday night, Avenattis first public interview since his arrest aired, on CBS.

The truth is, for years, Nike and its executives have been funneling payments to amateur players, high school players, and to their handlers and family members, in an effort to get them to go to colleges that were Nike colleges and hopefully to the NBA so they could sign a shoe deal with Nike, Avenatti said on CBS.

On Wednesday morning, Nike stock dropped slightly. On Twitter, Avenatti began sharing what he claimed were text messages and bank records related to Nike payments, and the companys stock closed the day down, at $83.08 a share.

On Thursday, Avenatti again tweeted periodically about Nike, including sharing a video of an impromptu interview with TMZ, headlined: Michael Avenatti Vows Nike Exec Will End Up in Handcuffs. Nikes stock rebounded, closing the day up, at $84.18.

All told, through three days of Avenattis public relations assault on Nike, the companys stock price had actually increased slightly. Nikes market cap, which had opened the week at $129.5 billion, had not dropped $10 billion, as Avenatti had predicted, but rather had increased nearly $3 billion, to about $132.5 billion.

To Powell, the industry analyst, this came as no surprise.

This is not a huge revelation. Its not like they were paying the players to throw games or anything, Powell said. I dont think the American public really cares.

Read more:

Updates from the NCAA tournament Sweet 16

How Dukes Mike Krzyzewski mastered the one-and-done era

John Feinstein: Wherever Buzz Williams might be going, hes going to win


U.S. equities capped their best quarter in a decade on a strong footing, resuming a streak of gains that has vaulted the S&P 500 from the brink of a bear market to within striking distance of a record high.

The benchmark gauge increased 1.2 percent in the five days through Friday. It was the 10th weekly advance of 2019, pushing its total gain this year to 13 percent. The tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 Index rose 17 percent in the quarter. The Dow Jones industrial average posted an 11 percent gain, closing at 25,929.

After starting the new year with nine weeks of almost uninterrupted gains, the major U.S. equity gauges hit speed bumps in March. Since the week ended March 1, they have alternated between gains and losses. Even so, it hasnt been enough to derail the 2019 rebound after a late December sell-off that pushed the S&P 500 down almost 20 percent from last years record. Investors have piled into riskier assets this quarter as major central banks showed willingness to stay accommodative and concern over a U.S.-China trade war eased.

All 11 major S&P 500 industry groups have gained this year. Technology stocks led with a 19 percent advance. Health-care companies posted the smallest gains, 6.1 percent.

The U.S. Treasury will sell three-month bills and six-month bills on April 1. They yielded 2.40 percent and 2.43 percent, respectively, in when-issued trading.

 Bloomberg News


Readers share their stories of interviewer mind games.

In a column about personality tests and mind games in interviews, I asked readers to share real-life examples.

Several mentioned Daniel H. Funkenstein, a psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School famous for conducting stress interviews that involved asking candidates to open a sealed window or take a seat when none was available. Edward Tabor of Bethesda, Md., who interviewed with Funkenstein, reports: He asked me about academic topics that I immediately knew were fake, apparently to see if I would try to pretend I knew about the nonexistent subject. At one point, he leaned forward, putting his nose about one inch away from my nose, apparently to see how I would react.

More examples:

We typically offer interview candidates a beverage. As CEO, I am often the last to see them, and I always pay attention to how they leave once we are finished. Do they pick up their coffee cup and ask where the kitchen is? Throw away or recycle the water bottle? A potential deal killer for me is when candidates simply stand up and leave without any effort to clean up. Although sometimes nerves take over, this can be a pretty good indicator of their sense of personal responsibility, their theory of office hierarchy and their willingness to be an equal member of a community. Same scoring mechanism for men and women.

 Anonymous

I was at my final interview (typically the salary negotiation stage) for a college faculty position. After a lot of softball questions, the campus director pulled out my transcript from University X and asked me to explain why it was marked unofficial withdrawal. I had transferred from University X to earn my degree at University Y. Transferees were required to formally withdraw to remain eligible for financial aid if they ever returned to University X.

After listening to me trying to justify my failure to follow an obscure university policy decades before, the director laughed and said he asked that only to play mind games because my track record was so solid there were no other nits to pick. I learned later that he had a reputation for putting people on the spot and watching them squirm.

 Anonymous

I was interviewed by someone who sat us right underneath a ceiling music speaker in a restaurant. I suspect it was to see if I could concentrate.

 Gus Mancuso, Laurel, Md.

I used to work at a well-known consulting firm that was brutal to candidates and newbies. Calm under fire was high praise.

In one example, a candidate would be escorted into the interviewers office and offered a glass and a can of soda. What the candidate didnt know is that the can had been shaken, resulting in a geyser of soda when opened. Most would try to pour the squirting mess into the glass or put their mouth over it. One candidate tossed the spewing can like a live grenade out into the hall, where it rolled into the adjacent office (much to the occupants dismay).

After I was hired, I made it one of my pet projects to document and change disrespectful elements of the firms culture, eliminating many unfair (some now illegal) practices.

By the way, I was the candidate who chucked the soda grenade.

 David Lease, Reston, Va.


Reporter

As a confirmed Boglehead (Ill explain later), my heart starts beating like a rabbit if I even think about buying a stock the first day it hits the open market.

I cant help it. Breathlessly jumping into the frenzy for the next Snap, Google or Facebook goes against my instinct for patience and being a measured investor.

Uber, Slack, Airbinb, Pinterest and Palantir Technologies are teeing themselves up for the open market. WeWork, SpaceX, Flipkart, Stripe are also in the conversation. Lyft shares began trading Friday morning.

My father-in-law warned me a couple of decades ago against buying a stock on its first day of sales  known as its initial public offering, or IPO. Or even the first week. Or the first six months.

Wait it out, he said. See how the company performs as a business, follow the stock, then make an informed judgment.

Better yet, he said, stick with mutual funds.

Wise advice, said Kathy Smith, who manages IPO ETFs at Renaissance Capital. You dont want to get caught up in that emotional vortex.

[Trump blames Fed for sub-4 percent growth; economists blame Trump]

For the umpteenth time: I do own a handful of individual stocks. So, by definition, I buy some shares  sooner or later. Just not on the day of the IPO. And I hardly ever sell. Most of our investments are in mutual funds.

I called around and asked some people whether its a good idea to avoid IPOs.

One investor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investors firm works with companies to take them public, said if you are fortunate enough to work with a brokerage (or underwriter) that will sell you shares before the IPO, you should get in on it.

These early birds can make a profit on the first-day bounce.

They are the flippers, Smith said. Those who managed to get the shares before the IPO, and if there is a first-day run-up, they dump. They say to themselves, I gotta get out of here. I got to take a quick profit. 

Some hold on for a long time and make a lot of money. Some lose when the company doesnt work out.

[Warren Buffetts hot investment tip for you]

There was a time during the dot-com boom when it seemed as though every stock offering sold like crazy. Remember Broadcast.com? Pets.com? Yahoo?

Success in IPOs means you get the cycle right, Washington investor Michael Farr said. There are cycles when everything that goes public goes up. In the mid- and the late-90s, everything that went public in tech and the dot-com space went up. Its much more about the appetite for the latest hot thing than it is the merit for the latest hot thing.

For most of us average Joes, its better to wait. You dont know how these companies are going to perform.

S&P Global Market Intelligence examined companies that went public at a value above $500 million since 2009. Of 94 companies it was able to examine, 65 percent showed a positive change in the stock price after six months from the IPO. At the end of a year, 62 percent showed a positive change in the equity price.

Take Facebook  a massive roller-coaster ride, says Nicole Tanenbaum, chief investment strategist at Chequers Financial Management.

[These executive stock sales can hurt company in long run, SEC commissioner says]

The social-media giant IPOd in 2012 at a $38 share price. It has been a rocky  albeit rewarding  ride. A year later, FB shares were $25.76, a loss of 32 percent compared with the IPO price. Facebook shares today sell for about $165.

Snap, on the other hand, hit the open market two years ago at $17 a share. Snap shares surged 44 percent the first day. A year later, the shares were up 6 percent. Snap was recently selling for about $10 a share  a significant drop.

Carlyle Group, the Washington-based private-equity firm, went public in 2012 at $22 a share. The stock has bounced around since and has paid a bunch of dividends, but the share price has been mostly anemic. They were selling for a little over $18 recently  less than the IPO price.

Buying an IPO means you have to invest without having seen a real earnings history, Farr said. While short-term hot money can be made by those who want to flip IPOs, this is not a game for Fred and Ethel looking for long-term value.

[Boeing is in crisis. Is it still a good investment?]

The average investor cant get in on the best deals, anyway.

They tend to get snapped up by institutional investors, said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. Think the big mutual funds, big brokerage houses, banks etc. Especially the hot deals. Its great to hear about some of these companies coming public and having a double-digit gain during the first day of trading. But very few individual investors can buy enough of the deal to make it worthwhile.

So-called unicorns, such as ride-hailing services Lyft and Uber, have been around for years and grown revenue  if not profits  as private companies.

Lyft stock opened at $87.24 per share, giving the company a valuation of about $30 billion.

Its rival, Uber Technologies, which also has filed paperwork for an IPO, could hit the market at a $75 billion or even $100 billion-plus, according to some reports.

[Pet project: Dog devotee Steve Cohen is investing in what he knows and loves]

Amazon, one of the most valuable companies in the world at nearly $900 billion, went public in 1997 at a market value of nearly $500 million. Amazon founder and chairman Jeffrey P. Bezos owns The Washington Post.

Neither Lyft nor Uber has made a profit, but some private investors have made a ton. Some early private investors in Uber who had the resources and contacts  and a stomach for risk  have been selling their shares in the 10-year-old company. Its founder cashed out $1.4 billion of his private stock about a year ago.

When you think about these companies from a public investors perspective, you want to participate in the growth of this new company, Tanenbaum said. A lot of that appreciation has already taken place.

In an interview with The Washington Post last year, Nasdaq chief executive Adena Friedman bemoaned the fact that companies were staying private longer and longer before they hit the public markets.

If we have to wait until companies are fully mature before they are ready to go public, she said, then youre taking investors away from the biggest growth years of these companies.

[Two Harvard guys based their million-dollar business on a whole lot of nothing]

Many of these IPOs are what is called a liquidity event that allows investors and insiders  employees, managers etc.  to cash out and make a ton of money.

Companies about to go on the open market or the underwriters can impose lockup requirements that prevent insiders  management, employees, board members  from selling shares for a period of time after the IPO.

Still, I worry that when insiders sell, they know something I dont.

The big question is, Why are they even bothering to IPO now,  Tanenbaum said. Theres a ton of pressure on these companies. The larger these companies get, the less options they have to create liquidity for the founders and private investors through private equity and by being acquired.

I asked Peter Fitzgerald, a former U.S. senator and now chairman of Chain Bridge Bank, what he thought of buying freshly minted stocks. Fitzgerald is a Boglehead, which means he subscribes to the view of the late John Bogle, founder of Vanguard, who changed the course of investing by advocating low-cost index mutual funds.

The average investor shouldnt speculate in IPOs, Fitzgerald told me. By buying broad-based, total market index funds, the investor gets proportionate exposure to new issues. Outsize exposure to new issues or IPOs is inappropriate for long-term investors.


Danny Brumfield, a Marine Corps veteran of the war in Vietnam, an office assistant and security guard who had been homeless, unemployed and living on the streets since 1992, died Feb. 27 at an Alexandria, Va., hospital. He was 67.

For 21 years after Mr. Brumfield left home in Gaithersburg, Md., his wife and two children had no idea of his whereabouts. They hired private detectives. No results.

His daughter, Mary Elizabeth Brumfield, 14 when he left home, tried ancestry.com, the online genealogical research service, hoping to find distant relatives who might shed light on what had happened to her father. Nothing there either.

In 2013, unbeknown to Mr. Brumfields family, the city of Alexandria was doing a count of its homeless population. A social worker persuaded Mr. Brumfield to reveal his name, and an online search yielded the information that someone had been looking for a man of that name. That someone was Mary Elizabeth Brumfield. The social worker in Alexandria called and told her that her father had been found.

But she still had to locate Mr. Brumfield, who had no fixed address. She learned that he frequented a Dunkin Donuts shop on Route One in Alexandria.

They knew him there. They often gave him a free cup of coffee and a doughnut. They promised to call whenever he came in, and they did. But Mr. Brumfield was always gone before his daughter could get there.



Danny Brumfield in earlier times. (Family photo)

She decided to wait there for him, and one morning he walked in. She recognized him right away.

Tears in her eyes, she said, Im Mary Elizabeth.

He did not reciprocate. No . . . no . . . no, she remembered him saying.

Later, however, he did acknowledge her presence. But she could never persuade him to live anywhere but the streets, and he refused all offers of medical or mental assistance, she said.

Gerald Dan Brumfield was born Nov. 1, 1951, in Iaeger, W.Va. His mother was a teenager when he was born, and he was raised by a grandmother. He joined the Marine Corps in 1969 and later was sent to Vietnam. He had lived in the Washington area since the 1970s. For periods he was a security guard and an office assistant.

He also appeared to have been suffering from an undiagnosed mental illness, his daughter said. He acted strangely, sometimes spoke to airplanes. He would not accept help. In 1992, he disappeared.

For six years after she rediscovered her father, Mary Elizabeth Brumfield visited him regularly, about once a month. He wanted to live outdoors, he told her. She asked him about the cold weather, and he said he hopped trains south in the wintertime. She once bought him a winter coat.

The family talked about whether anything in Mr. Brumfields Vietnam experience could have provoked a mental illness, but they never resolved the issue. He might have qualified for veterans benefits, but he was unwilling to apply. He resisted the idea of living in a shelter.

He often wore a construction workers hard hat, and he carried a Bible about with him.

A day before he died, someone at the Great Southern Tattoo Co. on North Kings Highway in Alexandria noticed someone sitting strangely still in a grassy area across the street, next to the Calvary Presbyterian Church. The police were called, and Mr. Brumfield was taken to a hospital. He was hemorrhaging internally.

Mr. Brumfield was known by name to many Alexandria police officers, and one of them called his daughter with the news.

I didnt want him to die alone, she said later. Her mother and a brother, neither of whom had seen Mr. Brumfield since 1992, joined her in a deathbed vigil.

My fathers eyes were open, his daughter said. I told him after 27 years it was the first time our family was together.

A few minutes later, Mr. Brumfield died. Sepsis was the official cause of death.

Survivors include his wife, Vicky Valbuena Brumfield, and a son, Thomas Brumfield, both of Gaithersburg; a daughter, Mary Elizabeth Brumfield of Bethesda, Md.; and a granddaughter.

Mr. Brumfield was buried with full military honors at the Crownsville Veterans Cemetery in Maryland.


Linda Gregg at the Geraldine R. Dodge Poetry Festival in Stanhope, N.J., in 2006. (Mel Evans/AP)

Linda Gregg, an award-winning poet whose muse followed her in her wanderings from the wilds of California to the rugged hills of Greece, from the Texas desert to a New York homeless shelter, in love and in the absence of it, died March 20 at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 76.

The cause was cancer, said the poet Timothy Liu, a friend of decades.

Ms. Gregg was nearly 40 years old when her first book of poetry, Too Bright to See, was published in 1981. She followed it with half a dozen more volumes, attracting praise from poets as distinguished as the late W.S. Merwin, who lauded her poems as original in the way that really matters.

They speak clearly of their source, Merwin observed in comments published by the Poetry Foundation. They are inseparable from the surprising, unrolling, eventful, pure current of their language, and they convey at once the pain of individual loss, a steady and utterly personal radiance.

[W.S. Merwin, poet of austere lyricism who twice won the Pulitzer Prize, dies at 91]

Yet as late as a decade ago, Ms. Gregg had yet to receive the attention that some readers considered her due. In 2009, the organization Poets & Writers awarded her the Jackson Poetry Prize, then worth $50,000, honoring an American poet of exceptional talent who deserves wider recognition.

I believe that poetry at its best is found rather than written, she had observed in an essay published three years earlier by the Academy of American Poets. What matters to me even more than the shapeliness and the dance of language is what the poem discovers deeper down than gracefulness and pleasures in figures of speech.

She said that, when reading a poem, the emphasis should be on the insides of the poem rather than with its surface, with the content rather than with the packaging. Too often in workshops and classrooms there is a concentration on the poems garments instead of its lifes blood.

Ms. Gregg grew up in the untamed land of Marin County, in Northern California, and throughout her life would look to her surroundings for inspiration.

She found it in the desert outside Marfa, Tex., where she once purchased a fixer-upper for $800, Liu wrote in a tribute published on the website Literary Hub. She found it in Greece, where she lived in the 1960s with the poet Jack Gilbert during what was described as their unofficial marriage. In Greece, her comforts were limited to three oil lamps and a mattress, according to a profile published in the Indianapolis weekly Nuvo.

I have seen raw cypresses / so dark the mind comes to them without color, she wrote in the poem The Poet Goes About Her Business, published in Too Bright to See.

1 of 17 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad  Notable deaths in 2019: Luke Perry, Frank Robinson, Carol Channing and others we have lost this year. View Photos Remembering those who have died in 2019 Caption Remembering those who have died in 2019 Fred Sweets/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

Dark on the Greek hillside. Dark, volcanic, dry and stone.

Where the oldest women of the world are standing dressed in black

up in the branches of fig trees in the gorge

knocking with as much quickness as their weakness will allow.

Weakness which my heart must not confuse with tenderness.

Ms. Gregg found images of similar pathos in urban environments. In the poem Lies and Longing, she described a scene in a womens homeless shelter like one she might have encountered earlier in life, when she lived briefly on the streets in New York while struggling to support herself and her writing:

Half the women are asleep on the floor

on pieces of cardboard. . . .

An old woman sings an Italian song in English

and says she wants her name in lights:

Faye Runaway. . . .

One keeps talking about how fat she is

so nobody will know shes pregnant.

Liu described Ms. Greggs style as measured and austere, giving her lines a feeling of chiseled marble. Yet her themes were deeply felt, he continued, imbuing her work with an arresting combination of classical restraint and then a more Romantic exuberance.

For all her fascination with the world around her, Ms. Gregg looked inward to find some of her most potent lines.

She wrote in the poem Wrapping Stones:

Everything I am is what survived

loves leaving. Everything I see, eat, want,

have is what survived the goneness

of what love is. Love, like time, takes down

the house, leaving only the partial walls,

open squares of light for windows,

and a door.

Linda Alouise Gregg was born in Suffern, N.Y., on Sept. 9, 1942, one of four girls. Their father was an architect and arts educator, and their mother was a teacher, Liu said. When Ms. Gregg was young, the family moved west.

I am made of the landscape in northern California where I grew up, she wrote in her essay, recalling a mountain where she and her twin communed with the live oak trees, the stillness, the tall grass, the dry smell of the hot summer air where the red-tailed hawks turned slowly up high, where the two of us alone at ten did the spring roundup of my fathers twenty-six winter-shaggy horses.

Ms. Gregg graduated in 1967 from what is now San Francisco State University, where she also received a masters degree in English in 1972. Her professors there included Gilbert; they were a couple from 1962 to 1970 and remained friends until his death in 2012. Ms. Greggs subsequent marriage to John Brentlinger ended in divorce, and her survivors include her three sisters.

In later decades of her life, Ms. Gregg found financial security by living frugally on teaching salaries, Liu said. She taught at prestigious institutions including the Iowa Writers Workshop, Princeton University and Columbia University and received awards including a Guggenheim Fellowship and several Pushcart Prizes.

Her collections of poetry included Eight Poems (1982), Alma (1985), Sacraments of Desire (1991), Chosen by the Lion (1994), Things and Flesh (1999), In the Middle Distance (2006) and All of It Singing (2008).

Certainly one can make good poems without feeling much or discovering anything new, she wrote. You can produce fine poems without believing anything, but it corrodes the spirit and eventually rots the seed-corn of the heart. Writing becomes manufacturing instead of giving birth.


Jim Moody, a onetime college professor who served five terms in the U.S. House of Representatives from Wisconsin and sponsored a bill in 1991 to establish single-payer universal health-care coverage, died March 22 at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 83.

The cause was a nontraumatic intracranial hemorrhage, said his wife, Janice Boettcher Moody.

Early in his career, Dr. Moody lived overseas while working for an international humanitarian organization and the Peace Corps. He later became a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee.

He served in both houses of the Wisconsin state legislature before he was elected to the House of Representatives in 1982 as a Democrat. During his campaign, he walked door to door in his Milwaukee district. Estimates of the number of houses he visited ranged from 13,000 to 40,000.

In Congress, Dr. Moody served on the Ways and Means Committee and had a reliably liberal voting record, except on the issue of federal debt. He was a longtime supporter of a constitutional amendment to require Congress to balance the budget.

He was also among a handful of congressmen who opposed the Persian Gulf War during the administration of President George H.W. Bush, maintaining that the country could go to war only after a declaration by Congress.

This is about constitutional process, he said in 1990, shortly before U.S. troops entered battle in the Persian Gulf. Clearly offensive actions should not take place in the absence of either debate in Congress or a formal declaration of war.

Dr. Moody was progressive on many social issues and, as early as the 1980s, voiced support for gay rights and the legalization of marijuana. He was also an advocate of universal health insurance for Americans, an idea that had been proposed since the early 20th century.

In a 1991 bill co-sponsored by Reps. Marty Russo (D-Ill.), Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.) and Thomas Downey (D-N.Y.), Dr. Moody called for a federally funded single-payer form of universal health insurance, similar to a plan in use in Canada since the 1960s. He noted that 37 million Americans at the time lacked insurance, including 550,000 in Wisconsin.

Dr. Moody said the proposal would be financed by higher taxes on corporations and the wealthy and would, in the long run, save billions of dollars a year in administrative costs. The bill died in committee.

In 1992, Dr. Moody mounted a campaign for the Senate, only to lose in the Democratic primary to Russ Feingold, who ultimately won the general election. Dr. Moody then retired from politics.

James Powers Moody Jr. was born Sept. 2, 1935, in Richlands, Va. His father was an official with the American Red Cross, and his mother worked in relief efforts for refugees.

Dr. Moody spent much of childhood abroad, attending school in Shanghai before graduating from an English-language high school in Athens.

He received a bachelors degree in 1957 from Haverford College in Pennsylvania, then worked in Yugoslavia and Iran for CARE, an international humanitarian organization. He joined the Peace Corps soon after it was formed in the early 1960s and helped set up programs in Pakistan and Bangladesh. He spoke several languages, including Greek, Farsi, Serbo-Croatian, Spanish and French.

He later became a Peace Corps official in Washington, then worked for the U.S. Agency for International Development. He received a masters degree in public administration from Harvard University in 1967 and a doctorate in economics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1973. He was teaching at the University of Wisconsins Milwaukee campus when he entered electoral politics, winning a seat in the state assembly in 1976.

Dr. Moodys mother was his campaign manager during his successful run for Congress in 1982.

His first marriage, to Eleanor Briggs, ended in divorce. Survivors include his wife of 28 years, Janice Boettcher Moody of Rockville, Md.; two children from his second marriage, Sarah Moody of Rockville and Brad Moody of Harrisburg, Pa.; a brother; and a sister.

After his 10 years in the House of Representatives, Dr. Moody taught at the Medical College of Wisconsin and the University of Maryland. In 1995, he became the chief financial officer of the International Fund for Agricultural Development, an agency of the United Nations. He later was president of InterAction, a Washington-based group of nonprofit organizations. In more recent years, Dr. Moody worked as a financial adviser at several investment and financial management firms.

During the 1980s, Dr. Moody helped found what is now the National Security Archive, which seeks to reduce government secrecy by declassifying federal documents.


Director Agns Varda poses during the photo call for the movie Les Plages dAgns (The Beaches of Agnes) at the 65th Venice International Film Festival in 2008. (Alberto Pizzoli/AFP/Getty Images)

Agns Varda, a Belgian-born filmmaker often called the godmother of the French New Wave for early works such as La Pointe Courte and Clo From 5 to 7, which broke hidebound narrative traditions and influenced directors such as Jean-Luc Godard and Alain Resnais , died at her home in Paris. She was 90.

A spokesman, Thomas Chanu Lambert, announced March 29 that she had died overnight. The cause was cancer, he said.

The French New Wave, which most conspicuously launched with Godards international hit Breathless (1960), was not characterized by a cohesive style or single formula. Instead, it was a rebellion-minded movement that sought to challenge Hollywood (and Parisian) cinemas established approach to acting, plot and pacing.

Ms. Varda, who received an honorary Oscar in 2017 and whose 2017 road trip documentary Faces Places was nominated for an Oscar, had long worked in the shadow of New Wave directors such as Godard, Resnais and Franois Truffaut. But she nonetheless was credited with inspiring many of the hallmarks of the movement: nonlinear narrative, an emphasis on mood over story line, and often-jarring editing.

The New Wave found enthusiastic followers among later generations of moviemakers, including Bernardo Bertolucci, Jim Jarmusch and Quentin Tarantino, who named his production company after a Godard film (Bande  Part, or Band of Outsiders).

Ms. Varda was, by any definition, an outsider when she began making movies in 1954: as a woman but also as a photographer without professional training in cinema. Before she picked up a movie camera, she claimed to have seen only five movies, among them Disneys Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.

A former art and philosophy student, she spent her early career in Paris as the official photographer of the Thtre National Populaire. Resnais, a friend who was making well-received documentary films, urged her to try moviemaking.

The French film-production unions were hostile to amateurs, so Ms. Varda and a small crew working on a minuscule budget left Paris for the French Mediterranean fishing village of Sete, where Ms. Varda grew up. The resulting 1955 film, La Pointe Courte, combines two parallel story lines and filming styles.

The villagers customs and struggles are shown through documentarylike sequences, while the story of the visiting Parisian couple whose marriage is crumbling unfolds like a traditional drama. The film starred Philippe Noiret, an actor with Thtre National Populaire, in his first leading role. Resnais served as editor.

With La Pointe Courte, Ms. Varda was determined to approach her first film with as much freedom as a novelist  letting the narrative meander and expunging expository dialogue.

Its like a stream of feelings, intuition and joy of discovering things, Ms. Varda said of her directing method in a 2001 interview with IndieWire. Finding beauty where its maybe not. Seeing. And, on the other hand, trying to be structural, organized; trying to be clever.

1 of 17 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad  Notable deaths in 2019: Luke Perry, Frank Robinson, Carol Channing and others we have lost this year. View Photos Remembering those who have died in 2019 Caption Remembering those who have died in 2019 Fred Sweets/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

This method of cine-writing was adopted by many New Wave directors, including Resnais, who later made such enigmatic masterworks as Hiroshima Mon Amour (1959) and Last Year at Marienbad (1961). Resnais, who died in 2014, said that Ms. Vardas debut film heralded the gathering forces of the oncoming New Wave.

La Pointe Courte was not a commercial success, but it was embraced by some critics for its daring style. Film scholar Roy Armes noted the works balance between the personal and the political, the theatrical and the documentary, all trademarks of Ms. Vardas later works.

Ms. Varda spent the next eight years making documentaries, several commissioned by the French tourism office. Her next feature was Clo From 5 to 7 (1962), which she wrote and directed.

Shot in real time in Paris, Clo From 5 to 7 follows its title character (played by Corinne Marchand) as she awaits the results of a biopsy. Clo is a callow pop star who seeks comfort from friends and lovers but is disappointed by everyone except a stranger she meets in the park  an Algerian soldier who accompanies her to the hospital.

The film took a subdued, even aloof portrayal of its main characters quiet suffering  toning down Hollywoodesque emotion in favor of imagery meant to evoke existential despair.

When asked by a New York Times reporter whether any of the film was autobiographical, Ms. Varda replied, Well, I wasnt tall, blond or cancerous. I wanted to combine the idea of death  and I think cancer is the psychosis of our century  and the fear prevalent in the female as she becomes increasingly emancipated.

Reaction to the film was mixed. A Time reviewer wrote that Ms. Varda mistakes pulp for pith and winds up only with pretension. Nevertheless, Clo From 5 to 7 won the Prix Melies in 1962  the French Union of Film Critics film of the year award.

After Clo From 5 to 7, Ms. Varda was bombarded with offers for what she referred to as more pictures about dying blond singers.

Instead, she took a break from features to make Salut les Cubains, a 1963 short documentary on daily life during the Cuban Revolution told through thousands of still photographs. Her political sympathies also led to her participation in the pro-communist, antiwar protest film Far From Vietnam (1967) with Godard, Resnais, William Klein, Claude Lelouch and other directors.

In 1969, Ms. Varda made her American feature debut, Lions Love. The quirky and mostly improvised film starred Andy Warhol performer Viva and the authors of the rock musical Hair, James Rado and Gerome Ragni, as Hollywood bohemians ostensibly trying to make a movie when they are not making prank telephone calls (Hello, Bank of America? Id like to order $200 to go). It also worked in a sequence about the assassination of presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy.

Film historian Jeanine Basinger said Ms. Varda broke down the barriers of what would be considered proper and classical narrative style but did not like being pigeonholed with the New Wave crowd. By the time the New Wave came along, she was already starting to move away.

Arlette Varda was born in Brussels on May 30, 1928, to a Greek father and a French mother. Her family fled to Sete during World War II, and she changed her first name to Agns at 18.

In 1962, she married director Jacques Demy (The Umbrellas of Cherbourg), with whom she had a son. Earlier, she had a daughter with actor Antoine Bourseiller, and Demy adopted her. Demy died in 1990. Survivors include her children, Mathieu Demy and Rosalie Varda, who are active in the film industry.

Ms. Vardas interest in the feminist movement deepened in the 1970s. She made a short documentary about women, Rponse de Femmes (1975), and followed with several feminist-themed feature films.

She won great acclaim as a feminist director with Vagabond, a 1985 drama about a drifter (Sandrine Bonnaire) whose body is found frozen in a ditch. Her story is revealed in flashbacks and semi-documentary-style interviews. The movie won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival.

In 1990, Demy died of complications from AIDS. His death and her grappling with mortality became the subject of her 1991 documentary Jacquot de Nantes, which featured re-creations of his early life and raw footage of him dying.

Ms. Varda made a second documentary about her husband, The World of Jacques Demy (1995), and one about herself, The Beaches of Agns (2008). In 2015, she received an honorary Palme dOr at the Cannes Film Festival, the first woman to achieve that award.

Her critically acclaimed 2000 documentary The Gleaners and I was a subjective documentary about French scavengers, but it became an extended exploration of Ms. Vardas fascination with discarded or lost things.

I am the queen of the margins, she told the New York Times in 2009, remarking on her lack of name recognition from a commercial standpoint. But the films are loved. The films are remembered. And this is my aim  to be loved as a filmmaker because I want to share emotions, to share the pleasure of being a filmmaker.


Updated June 4, 2018

This Terms of Sale governs the sale of Washington Post Digital Products (the Digital Products). By using the Digital Products, you also agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

Digital Products The Washington Post Digital Products include the website (www.washingtonpost.com), mobile site, and tablet and mobile apps. You are not necessarily required to purchase anything to use The Posts Digital Products. If you do not purchase a subscription or product, however, your access to the Digital Products will be limited You can view The Posts various subscription offerings at https://subscribe.washingtonpost.com. We also offer gift subscriptions at https://subscribe.washingtonpost.com/gift. The Post reserves the right to modify the content, type and availability of any Digital Product at any time.

Subscription a. Auto-renewing Subscription. Your Digital Products subscription, which may start with a promotional rate, will auto-renew at the end of the cycle stated at the time of your order (Billing Period) unless and until you cancel your subscription or we terminate it. You can view the date of your next scheduled payment by visiting our website and clicking on the My Account link. You will not receive a notice from us that your promotional period has ended or that your subscription has auto-renewed. b. Differing Subscriptions/Promotions. The Post may offer a number of types of subscriptions, including subscriptions to different Washington Post products and special promotions. Any materially different terms from those described in these Terms of Sale will be disclosed at the time of purchase or in other communications made available to you. You can find specific details regarding your subscription visiting our website and clicking on the My Account link. We reserve the right to change or terminate any offered subscriptions or promotions at any time. c. Premium EU Subscription.Users in the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland have the option to subscribe to our Premium EU product, which offers unlimited access to www.washingtonpost.com (the Site) on any device, as well as all of our apps. The Premium EU product has no advertising or third-party ad tracking on the Site. Please note, however, that the Site, may include content embedded from other sites and services (such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube) and that such third-party content may contain some advertising and third-party ad tracking from those sites or services. In addition, our apps and newsletters may contain advertising and third-party ad tracking. Please view our Privacy Policy for more information.

Billing a. Payment Method. You can pay for your subscription with a major credit card, or by Amazon Pay or PayPal (Payment Method). Only credit cards, Amazon Pay or PayPal are eligible for payment. Do not sign up for a subscription by identifying a debit card in the credit card option. A debit card may also be known as a check or ATM card and typically has the word debit on it. You may edit your Payment Method information by visiting our website and clicking on the My Account link. If your payment is unsuccessful by reason of insufficient funds, expiration, or otherwise, you remain responsible for any uncollected amount. b. Recurring Billing. By placing an order for a subscription, you authorize us to charge you the subscription fee then in effect at the beginning of each Billing Period, plus applicable taxes, to your Payment Method. You acknowledge that the amount charged each Billing Period may vary for reasons that may include price changes, changing your subscription, or changes in applicable taxes, and you authorize us to charge your Payment Method for such varying amount each Billing Period.Applicable taxes may vary. For example, you authorize us to charge your Payment Method the promotional rate disclosed on the subscription screen in the initial Billing Period (if applicable) and the regular subscription rate in subsequent Billing Periods, each with applicable taxes. We automatically bill your Payment Method on the last day of each Billing Period. We reserve the right to change the timing of our billing, in particular, in the event your Payment Method has not successfully settled. If your Payment Method is declined for a recurring payment of your subscription fee, you have four (4) days to provide us a new Payment Method or your subscription will be canceled. c. Price Changes. We reserve the right to change subscription fees for any of our subscriptions at any time. We will notify you of any changes if the regular fee for your subscription changes from what was stated at the time of your initial order. You will have an opportunity to cancel your subscription at that time. If you do not cancel your subscription, you will be charged the new subscription fee at your next Billing Period. d. Billing Period. We will charge the subscription fee at the commencement of your subscription or, if applicable, at the end of your free trial period, and automatically on the first calendar day of each Billing Period thereafter unless and until your subscription is cancelled. e. One-Time Purchases. When you purchase a stand-along product, such as a gift subscription, we will charge your Payment Method at the time of purchase.


Updated January 9, 2017

This Terms of Sale governs the sale of Washington Post Print Products (the Print Products).

1. Print Products

The Washington Post Print Products include home delivery of the printed version of The Washington Post newspaper and may include access to some or all of Washington Post Digital Products, such as the website (www.washingtonpost.com), mobile site, and tablet and mobile apps. By using any of the Digital Products, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

You can view The Posts various subscription offerings at https://account.washingtonpost.com/acquisition. We also offer gift subscriptions at https://subscribe.washingtonpost.com/gift.

The Post reserves the right to modify the content, type and availability of any Print Products at any time.

2. Subscription

a. Auto-renewing Subscription. Your Print Product subscription, which may start with a promotional rate, will auto-renew at the end of the cycle stated at the time of your order (Billing Period) unless and until you cancel your subscription or we terminate it. You can view the date of your next scheduled payment by logging in to your account on our website and clicking on the My Subscriptions tab. You will not receive a notice from us that your promotional period has ended or that your subscription has auto-renewed.

b. Differing Subscriptions/Promotions. The Post may offer a number of types of subscriptions, including subscriptions to different Washington Post products and special promotions. Any materially different terms from those described in these Terms of Sale will be disclosed at the time of purchase or in other communications made available to you. You can find specific details regarding your subscription by logging in to your account on our website and clicking on the My Subscriptions tab. We reserve the right to change or terminate any offered subscriptions or promotions at any time. All Print Product subscriptions include delivery of our special Thanksgiving Day edition and other special editions as may be designated by The Post (up to 12 per calendar year). You will be charged your then-current Sunday home delivery rate for these editions. Unless otherwise stated, your subscription does not include TV Week. New print subscriptions may be charged a one-time activation fee.

c. Eligibility. Print Product offers are valid only in limited locations within The Washington Posts 7-day home-delivery area for new subscribers and those who have not been a Washington Post subscriber for the past thirty (30) days. Offers cannot be combined with any other Washington Post reduced-price home-delivery sales offers.

3. Billing

a. Payment Method. You can pay for your subscription with a major credit card (Payment Method). Only credit cards are eligible for payment. Do not sign up for a subscription by identifying a debit card in the credit card option. A debit card may also be known as a check or ATM card and typically has the word debit on it. You may edit your Payment Method information by logging in to your account on our website and clicking on the My Subscriptions tab. If your payment is unsuccessful by reason of insufficient funds, expiration, or otherwise, you remain responsible for any uncollected amount.

b. Recurring Billing. By placing an order for a subscription, you authorize us to charge you the subscription fee then in effect at the beginning of each Billing Period to your Payment Method. For example, you authorize us to charge your Payment Method the promotional rate disclosed on the subscription screen in the initial Billing Period (if applicable) and the regular subscription rate in subsequent Bill Periods. We automatically bill your Payment Method on the last day of each Billing Period. We reserve the right to change the timing of our billing, in particular, in the event your Payment Method has not successfully settled. If your Payment Method is declined for a recurring payment of your subscription fee, you have ninety (90) days to provide us a new Payment Method or your subscription will be canceled.

You acknowledge that the amount charged each Billing Period may vary for reasons that may include price changes or changing your subscription, and you authorize us to charge your Payment Method for such varying amount each Billing Period. You will not be notified of upcoming charges, except as otherwise provided herein.

c. Price Changes. We reserve the right to change subscription fees for any of our subscriptions at any time. We will notify you of any changes if the regular fee for your subscription changes from what was stated at the time of your initial order. You will have an opportunity to cancel or change your subscription at that time. If you do not cancel or change your subscription, you will be charged the new subscription fee at your next Billing Period.

d. Billing Period. We will charge the subscription fee at the commencement of your subscription or, if applicable, at the end of your free trial period, and automatically on the first calendar day of each Billing Period thereafter unless and until your subscription is cancelled.

e. One-Time Purchases. When you purchase a stand-alone product, such as a gift subscription, we will charge your Payment Method at the time of purchase.

4. Cancellations and Refunds

a. Cancellations. For Print Products, you can cancel your subscription by calling Customer Care at 202-334-6100 and speaking with a representative.

b. Refunds. Payments are non-refundable, and there are no refunds or credits for partially used Billing Periods. We reserve the right, however, to issue refunds or credits at our sole discretion. If we issue a refund or credit in one instance, we are under no obligation to issue the same refund or credit in the future.

5. E-Sign Disclosure and Consent. By purchasing a Print Product subscription and/or clicking on the box at account opening, you consent to receive notices, disclosures, agreements, policies, receipts, confirmations, transaction information, account information, other communications, and changes or updates to any such documents electronically (collectively, the Electronic Communications). We will provide these Electronic Communications by posting them on the profile page for your account on the Washington Post website and/or emailing them to your primary email address associated with your Print Product subscription. You agree that the Electronic Communications will satisfy any legal communication requirements, including that such communications be in writing. Electronic Communications will be deemed received by you within 24 hours of the time posted to our website or on the profile page for your account, or within 24 hours of the time emailed to you unless we receive notice that the email was not delivered.

a. System Requirements to Access Information. To receive Electronic Communications, you must have the following equipment and software:

 a computer or other device with an Internet connection;

 a current web browser that includes 128-bit encryption (e.g. Internet Explorer version 6.0 and above, Firefox version 2.0 and above, Chrome version 3.0 and above, or Safari 3.0 and above) with cookies enabled;

 Adobe Acrobat Reader version 8.0 and above to open documents in .pdf format;

 a valid email address (your primary email address associated with the Print Product Subscription); and

 sufficient storage space or other methods (e.g., a USB drive or secure online storage) to save past Electronic Communications or a printer to print them.

Your access to this page verifies that your system/device meets these requirements. You also confirm that you have access to the necessary equipment and are able to receive, open, print, or store Electronic Communications.

It is your responsibility to keep your primary email address up to date. You can change your primary email address by logging in to your account on our website and accessing your profile. You agree that Electronic Communications sent to a primary email address that is incorrect, out of date, blocked by your service provider, or cannot be received due to your failure to maintain the system requirements, will be deemed to have been provided to you. If an Electronic Communication is returned to us because an email your address becomes invalid, we may deem your subscription to be inactive, and you will not receive or have access to your subscription until we receive a valid, working primary email address from you.

We will notify you if there are any material changes to the hardware or software needed to receive Electronic Communications.

b. Paper Delivery of Disclosures and Notices. You have the right to receive a paper copy of the Electronic Communications. To receive a paper copy at no charge, please request it in one of the following ways: (1) go to the Washington Post Help Desk www.washingtonpost.com/contactus and send us a message with your name and email address; or (2) call us at 202-334-6100 and speak to the customer service representative. Any withdrawal of your consent to receive Electronic Communications will be effective only after we have a reasonable period of time to process your withdrawal. You understand and agree that if you withdraw your consent we may  though we are not required to  cancel your Print Product subscription.

6. Changes to the Terms of Sale. We may, from time to time, change these Terms of Sale. When such changes are made, we will make a copy of the new Terms of Sale available to you. You can contact homedelivery@washpost.com if you have any questions about the Terms of Sale.


Published: July 1, 2014.

These Terms of Service (Terms) apply when you use a website, mobile application, or other online service (collectively, the Services) that links or refers to the Terms. These terms are a legal contract between you and WP Company LLC (The Washington Post, we or us) so it is important that you review them carefully before using the Services. Your use of the Services indicates that you agree to follow and be bound by the Terms, which include the Discussion and Submission Guidelines. If you do not agree to the Terms, do not access or use the Services.

THESE TERMS CONTAIN DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTIES (SECTION 11) AND DISCLAIMERS OF LIABILITY (SECTION 12).

1. General

We may change the Terms or modify any features of the Services at any time at our sole discretion. The most current version of the Terms can be viewed by clicking on the Terms of Service link at the bottom of the Services home page. If you continue to use the Services after changes are posted you will be deemed to have accepted the change.

2. Compliance With Applicable Laws

As a condition of your access to and use of the Services, you agree that you will not use the Services for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited by these Terms and that you will comply with all applicable laws and any conditions or restrictions imposed by these terms. The Services are offered for your personal and non-commercial use only, and you are prohibited from using, and are expressly not granted the right to use, the Services for any other purpose.

3. Privacy

By using the Services, you indicate that you understand the information collection, use, and disclosure practices described in the Privacy Policy.

4. Discussion And Submission Guidelines

The Services allow you to post content and communicate with others. This content may include text, images, photographs, audio, video, or material in any other form. You represent that you have read and agree to abide by the Discussion and Submission Guidelines, which are incorporated by reference into these Terms, and that by making a submission you are consenting to its display and publication on the Services and in related online and offline promotional materials, in accordance with the guidelines. We may change or modify those guidelines at any time.

By posting content on, to, or through the Services, you give us the right to display such content on the Services and through affiliated publications and to distribute such content and use such content for promotional and marketing purposes, pursuant to the terms of the Discussion and Submission Guidelines. Specifically, you provide us with a royalty-free, irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide, exclusive, and fully sublicensable license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, incorporate into other works, distribute, perform, display, and otherwise exploit such content, in whole or in part in any form, media or technology now known or later developed.

5. Copyright

The Services (including, but not limited to, text, photographs, graphics, video, audio content, and computer code) are protected by copyright as collective works or compilation under the copyright laws of the United States and other countries. All individual articles, photographs, graphics, video, audio, and other content or elements comprising the Services are also copyrighted works. All copyrights in the Services are owned by us or by our third-party licensors to the extent permitted under the United States Copyright Act and all international copyright laws. Except for content that you have posted on the Services, or unless expressly authorized by The Washington Post in writing, you are prohibited from publishing, reproducing, distributing, publishing, entering into a database, displaying, performing, modifying, creating derivative works, transmitting, or in any way exploiting any part of the Services, except that you may make use of the content for your own personal use as follows: you may make one machine readable copy and/or print copy that is limited to occasional articles of personal interest only. To obtain written consent to use a copyrighted work, please see our Reprints & Permissions section.

Just as The Washington Post requires users to respect our copyrights, and those of our affiliates and partners, we respect the copyrights of others. If you believe in good faith that your copyrighted work has been reproduced on our site without authorization in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, you may notify our designated copyright agent either by mail to Copyright Agent, c/o Legal Department, The Washington Post, 1301 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20071 or to copyrightagent@washpost.com. Please provide our copyright agent with the following information in writing:

An electronic or physical signature of the person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the exclusive right that is allegedly infringed;

Identification of the copyrighted work or a representative list of the works claimed to have been infringed;

Identification of the allegedly infringing material and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material;

Your name, address, telephone number, and email address, so that we may contact you if necessary;

A statement that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and

A statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owners behalf.

6. Trade and Service Mark Rights.

All rights in the product names, company names, trade names, logos, service marks, trade dress, slogans, product packaging, and designs of the Services, whether or not appearing in large print or with the trademark symbol, belong exclusively to The Washington Post or its licensors and are protected from reproduction, imitation, dilution, or confusing or misleading uses under national and international trademark and copyright laws. The use or misuse of these trademarks or any materials, except as permitted herein, is expressly prohibited, and nothing stated or implied on the Services confers on you any license or right under any patent or trademark of The Washington Post, its affiliates, or any third party.

7. Prohibited Conduct

You may not access or use, or attempt to access or use, the Services to take any action that could harm us or any third party, interfere with the operation of the Services, or use the Services in a manner that violates any laws. For example, and without limitation, you may not:

Post content that is prohibited by or otherwise not in compliance with these Terms (including the Discussion and Submission Guidelines).

Make use of the contents of the Services in any manner that constitutes an infringement of our rights or the rights of other users or third parties, including copyrights.

Access parts of the Services to which you are not authorized, or attempt to circumvent any restrictions imposed on your use or access of the Services.

Copy, reproduce, distribute, publish, enter into a database, display, perform, modify, create derivative works, transmit, or in any way exploit any part of the Services, except for content you have posted on the Services, or unless expressly authorized. You may download material from the Services solely for your own personal use as follows: you may make one machine readable copy and/or one print copy that is limited to occasional articles of personal interest only.

Distribute any part of the Services over any network, including a local area network, nor sell or offer it for sale. See our Reprints & Permissions section for more information on distribution. In addition, these files may not be used to construct any kind of database.

Engage in unauthorized scraping or spidering, or harvesting of personal information, or use any unauthorized automated means to compile information.

Take any action that imposes an unreasonable or disproportionately large load on our network or infrastructure.

Use any device, software, or routine to interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the Services or any activity conducted on the Services.

Use or attempt to use any engine, software, tool, agent, or other device or mechanism (including, without limitation, browsers, spiders, robots, avatars, or intelligent agents) to navigate or search the Services other than the search engine and search agents available on the Services and other than generally available third-party web browsers.

Attempt to decipher, decompile, disassemble, or reverse-engineer any of the software comprising or in any way making up a part of the Services

Engage in any other conduct that restricts or inhibits any other person from using or enjoying the Services.

Take any action that violates or threatens our system or network security.

Violations of these Terms may result in civil or criminal liability. We may investigate violations of these Terms and we may also work with law enforcement authorities to prosecute users who violate the Terms.

8. Registration and Security

To register for certain Services, you will create login credentials by providing an email address to us and by selecting a username and password. You also provide us certain information during the registration process, which you agree to keep accurate and updated. Each login is for a single user only. You are not allowed to share or disclose your login credentials with any other user or person. We may cancel or suspend your access to the Services if you share your credentials.

You may also sign in to certain Services using your Facebook login information.

You will be responsible for all usage and activity on your account, including use of the account by any third party authorized by you to use your login credentials, and for all charges for any goods or services. You are also responsible for all statements made or materials posted under your account, including liability for harm caused by such statements or materials. You may not transfer, sell, or otherwise assign your rights or obligations under these Terms.

You must be 13 years or older to use the Services. Any fraudulent, abusive, or otherwise illegal activity may be grounds for termination of your account, at our sole discretion, and we may refer you to appropriate law enforcement agencies.

9. Charges for Services

We may charge for access to portions of the Services or to the Services as a whole, and we reserve the right at any time to change the amount we charge for such access or subscriptions that include authorization to access the Services. In such event, we will notify you in advance, and give you an opportunity to subscribe (or un-subscribe) to the Service(s). More information about any such subscriptions can be found on the appropriate locations of the Services. You shall pay all applicable taxes relating to use of the services, and recognize that any fees to third parties that may be required for you to receive the service (such as mobile data plans and text-message charges) are not included in the cost of the services.

10. Third-Party Content and Links to Third-Party Websites

The Services may contain third-party owned content and links to other websites (Linked Sites). The Washington Post does not endorse, sponsor, recommend, or otherwise accept responsibility for any Linked Sites. In addition, Linked Sites are not under the control of The Washington Post, and The Washington Post is not responsible for the content or privacy practices of the Linked Sites.

11. Disclaimer of Warranties

THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED AS IS. WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. THERE MAY BE DELAYS, OMISSIONS, INTERRUPTIONS, AND INACCURACIES IN THE NEWS, INFORMATION, OR OTHER MATERIALS AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES. The Washington Post DISCLAIMS TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY AND ALL SUCH REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. IF YOU RELY ON THE SERVICES AND ANY MATERIALS MADE AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES, YOU DO SO SOLELY AT YOUR OWN RISK

WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, THE WASHINGTON POST DISCLAIMS TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY AND ALL (A) WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, (B) WARRANTIES AGAINST INFRINGEMENT OF ANY THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, (C) WARRANTIES RELATING TO THE TRANSMISSION OR DELIVERY OF THE SERVICE, (D) WARRANTIES RELATING TO THE ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, CORRECTNESS, TIMELINESS OR COMPLETENESS OF DATA MADE AVAILABLE ON THE SERVICES OR OTHERWISE BY THE WASHINGTON POST, INCLUDING ANY ADVICE, OPINION, STATEMENT, OR OTHER MATERIAL OR DATABASE DISPLAYED, UPLOADED OR DISTRIBUTED IN THE SERVICES OR AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES, AND WARRANTIES OTHERWISE RELATING TO PERFORMANCE, NONPERFORMANCE, OR OTHER ACTS OR OMISSIONS BY THE WASHINGTON POST OR ANY THIRD PARTY. FURTHER, THERE IS NO WARRANTY THAT THE SERVICES WILL MEET YOUR NEEDS OR REQUIREMENTS OR THE NEEDS OR REQUIREMENTS OF ANY OTHER PERSON.

THE WASHINGTON POST MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED (A) THAT THE INFORMATION PROVIDED THROUGH THE SERVICES WILL BE FREE FROM ERROR, OMISSION, INTERRUPTION, DEFECT, OR DELAY IN OPERATION, OR FROM TECHNICAL INACCURACIES OR TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS, (B) THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE AVAILABLE AT ANY PARTICULAR TIME OR LOCATION (C) THAT DEFECTS OR ERRORS IN THE SERVICES WILL BE CORRECTED, OR (D) THAT THE CONTENT ON THE SERVICES ARE FREE OF VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS. ANY INFORMATION ON THE SERVICES IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE, AND THE WASHINGTON POST DISCLAIMS ALL RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SERVICES. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CORRECT ANY ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN THE SERVICES.

12. Limitation of Liability

IN NO EVENT WILL THE WASHINGTON POST OR ITS AFFILIATES OR ANY PARTY INVOLVED IN CREATING, PRODUCING, OR DELIVERING THE SERVICES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF YOUR ACCESS, USE, MISUSE, OR INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICES OR ANY LINKED SITES, OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY FAILURE OF PERFORMANCE, ERROR, TRANSMISSION, COMPUTER VIRUS, OR LINE OR SYSTEM FAILURE. THESE LIMITATIONS APPLY WHETHER THE ALLEGED LIABILITY IS BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR ANY OTHER BASIS, EVEN IF THE WASHINGTON POST HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. BECAUSE SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, THE WASHINGTON POSTS LIABILITY IN SUCH JURISDICTIONS SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW.

13. Indemnification

You agree to indemnify and hold harmless The Washington Post and its parent, subsidiaries, and affiliates, and their owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, shareholders, agents, and licensors, from and against all losses, expenses, damages and costs, including reasonable attorneys fees, resulting from any violation of the Terms, including the Discussion and Submission Guidelines, or the failure to fulfill any obligations relating to your account incurred by you or any other person using your account. We reserve the right to take over the exclusive defense of any claim for which we are entitled to indemnification under this Section. In such event, you shall provide us with such cooperation as is reasonably requested by us.

14. Governing Law

This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the United States and the District of Columbia. By using the Services, you waive any claims that may arise under the laws of other states, countries, territories or jurisdictions.

15. Termination

The Washington Post may terminate this agreement for any reason at any time. The Washington Post reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to restrict, suspend, or terminate your access to and use of the Service, with or without prior notice. Otherwise applicable sections of the Terms shall survive termination. In addition to any termination rights, we reserve the right to enforce and prosecute any violations of these Terms.

16. Miscellaneous

Supplemental Terms . In connection with your use of the Services, you may be asked to consent to policies or terms and conditions in addition to these Terms. Please read these supplemental policies and terms carefully before making any use of such portions of the Services. Any supplemental terms will not vary or replace these Terms regarding any use of the Services, unless otherwise expressly stated.

No Waiver. The failure of The Washington Post to enforce any provisions of the Terms or to respond to a breach by you or other parties shall not in any way waive its rights to enforce subsequently any terms or conditions of the Terms or to act with respect with similar breaches.

No Partnership . You agree that no joint venture, partnership, employment, or agency relationship exists between you and The Washington Post as a result of these Terms or your access to and use of the Services.

Entire Agreement. Unless otherwise specified herein, the Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and The Washington Post and govern your use of the Services. If any portion of the Terms is held invalid or unenforceable, that portion shall be construed in a manner consistent with applicable law to reflect, as nearly as possible, the original intention of the parties, and the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.


We invite you to submit your videos, photos, articles, and comments in certain areas of our website. It is our hope that youll take the opportunity to contribute to these interactive forums and share your original content with our community. In order to keep these interactive forums enjoyable and interesting for all of our users, we ask that you follow the rules outlined below.

By submitting content, you are consenting to these rules:

1. You agree not to submit inappropriate content. Inappropriate content includes any content that:

infringes upon or violates the copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of any person

is libelous or defamatory

is obscene, pornographic, sexually explicit, or vulgar

violates a persons right to privacy

violates any local, state, national, or international law

contains or advocates illegal or violent acts

degrades others on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability, or other classification

is predatory, hateful, or intended to intimidate or harass, or contains derogatory name-calling

is a duplicate or repost of something youve already posted on the site

contains advertising

contains a solicitation of any kind

misrepresents your identity or affiliation

impersonates others

is in poor taste or is otherwise objectionable

2. You agree that you are fully responsible for the content that you submit. You will promptly remove any content that you have posted should you discover that it violates these rules or that it is otherwise inappropriate. You will indemnify The Washington Post and its affiliates and their subsidiaries, and its and their directors, officers, managers, employees, shareholders, agents, and licensors, from and against losses, expenses, damages, and costs, including reasonable attorneys fees, resulting from any claim brought by any third party relating to content you have posted.

3. You understand and agree that we are not responsible for any user submitted content. You further understand that we have the right, but not the obligation, to monitor submissions and we may remove content that we deem inappropriate for any reason whatsoever without consent. We further reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to remove a users privilege to post content on our site. We may reject or remove any comment at any time, with or without notice to you.

4. You certify that you are at least 13 years of age. If you are under the age of 13, please do not submit any content to us. If you are under the age of 18 but at least 13 years of age, you may submit content only with the permission of, and under the supervision of, a parent or legal guardian. If you are a parent or legal guardian agreeing to these rules for the benefit of an individual between the ages of 13 and 18, please be advised that you are fully responsible for his or her submissions and any legal liability that he or she may incur.

5. You certify that you have the permission of others who have contributed to or are featured in any content that you submit. If there are any individuals under the age of 18 in any photos, video, or other content that you submit, you must obtain the permission of each such individuals parent or legal guardian prior to submitting the content.

6. You acknowledge and agree any use and/or reliance on any information obtained through the interactive forums is at your own risk. We are not in any manner endorsing the content of the interactive forums and cannot and will not vouch for its reliability.

7. By applying for highlighted comment placement, you are consenting to abide by the overall discussion policy when submitting content. The Washington Post highlights comments from commenters who are directly involved in a particular story. Highlighted placement is approved on a story-by-story basis and verified by a Post community manager. Once approved, users may submit content and share information relevant to particular stories on washingtonpost.com for which they are approved. In all cases, users must still adhere to the Posts Discussion and Submission Guidelines.

8. For any content that you submit, you give us permission to use such content. Except as otherwise provided herein, You hereby grant to The Washington Post a royalty-free, irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide, exclusive, and fully sublicensable license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, incorporate into other works, distribute, perform, display, and otherwise exploit such content, in whole or in part in any form, media or technology now known or later developed. With respect to any photos submitted to the Capital Weather Gang flickr page, located at https://www.flickr.com/groups/capitalweather/, The Washington Posts rights to such content shall be non-exclusive, instead of exclusive.

9. You have read and agree to abide by our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.


We encourage new and innovative uses of our content, and we want our readers to have access to our content in a wide variety of different ways. We therefore make our content available through RSS feeds for personal use (e.g., in a news reader), for many commercial purposes, or for any other form of distribution to a third party.

However , all use of our RSS feeds is subject to our User Agreement and to the terms and conditions below. If you have questions or concerns about any of these terms  or if you wish to use an RSS feed in a manner inconsistent with any provision below (e.g., on a mobile device for commercial purposes or redistribution, or with your own advertising)  please do not hesitate to contact us at rss@washpost.com. We will be happy to discuss your ideas and to work with you to try to meet your requests.

a. For any article, you may not display more text than we provide in the RSS feed.

b. All text from our RSS feed must displayed in the manner in which we provide the text. You may not edit, translate, or reformat the content that we provide. You must retain all links to the original Washington Post article on washingtonpost.com, as well as any other hyperlinks or notices in the feed.

c. You must ensure that all excerpts link directly to washingtonpost.com, and you may not insert interstitial, splash, intermediate pages or any other content or advertising in connection with our RSS feed, or between any display of our RSS feed and our website.

d. Any photographs or other images that you display must be low-resolution and in a size no greater than 60x60.

e. You must retain in original form the attribution and by-line provided in the RSS feed, and must prominently credit The Washington Post in connection with each RSS excerpt that you publish.

f. Except for your own individual, personal use, you may not display our RSS feed on a mobile device, defined as any portable device using wireless technology to receive content, data, and/or other information (including within a mobile application or on a mobile website).

g. You may not aggregate or otherwise use articles and/or excerpts from our RSS feed in a manner that could reasonably serve as a substitute for our original content or could otherwise diminish the value of the content of The Washington Post. For instance, you may not publish a webpage that simply aggregate the RSS feeds of all Washington Post politics articles and sell advertising against that page.

h. You may not strip advertising from our RSS feeds, nor serve your own advertising within or against our RSS feeds.

i. You may not sell, lease, sublicense, redistribute or otherwise monetize our RSS feeds.

j. You may not display the name, logo, trademark or other identifier of another person or entity in connection with our RSS feeds in a manner that could reasonably indicate that such other person or entity is affiliated with our RSS feeds.

k. You may not display the RSS feeds on any website or in any other way that could reasonably damage the brand or reputation of The Washington Post. For instance, you may not publish our RSS feed on or in connection with any website that infringes upon or violates the copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of any person; is libelous or defamatory; is obscene, pornographic, or sexually explicit; violates a person's right to privacy; violates any local, state, national, or international law; contains or advocates illegal or violent acts; degrades others on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability, or other classification; or is predatory, hateful, or intended to intimidate or harass.

l. You must provide us with complete and accurate registration information in order to use our RSS feeds.

m. You will promptly remove our RSS feeds upon our request, and will not store or archive any of our feeds.

We are not liable for your use of our RSS feeds or any related activity.



We may limit, suspend, or terminate your access to and use of our RSS feeds at any time at our sole discretion.

We retain all ownership and other rights in the RSS content, and in any and all Washington Post logos and trademarks used in connection with the RSS feeds.

BY DOWNLOADING AN RSS FEED, YOU HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CHANGE ANY OF THESE TERMS AT OUR SOLE DISCRETION. YOUR CONTINUED USE OF OUR SERVICE CONSTITUTES ACCEPTANCE OF ANY SUCH CHANGES.

If you have questions about use of our RSS feeds, or to request our permission to deviate from the requirements set forth above, including using our feeds in mobile products or on any mobile platform, please contact us at rss@washpost.com.






Published September 16, 2016

Online advertising for washingtonpost.com is delivered by the vendor DoubleClick. DoubleClick places cookies on your browser to facilitate serving particular ads  for instance, to help determine whether you have seen a particular advertisement before, to tailor ads to you if you have visited our site before, and to avoid sending you duplicate advertisements. You can opt out of DoubleClicks use of cookies for these purposes by visiting http://www.google.com/intl/en/privacy/.

In some cases, we and advertisers on washingtonpost.com and other sites work with other third-party vendors to help deliver advertisements tailored to your interests. These vendors include ad networks and audience segment providers, and they use cookies, beacons, mobile ad identifiers, and similar technologies to collect information about your online activity (e.g., the sites and pages you have visited and mobile apps you use) in order to help advertisers deliver particular ads on our site and other sites that they believe you would find most relevant. You can opt out of those vendors use of cookies to tailor advertising to you by visiting http://www.aboutads.info/.

Due to differences between using apps and websites on mobile devices, you may need to take additional steps to disable tracking technologies in mobile apps. Many mobile devices allow you to opt-out of targeted advertising for mobile apps using the settings within the mobile app or your mobile device. For more information, please check your mobile settings. You also may uninstall our apps using the standard uninstall process available on your mobile device or app marketplace.

Often our advertisers contract with a third-party service to host their ads. In this case, an ad serving vendor contacts the advertisers hosting service for a particular advertisement. In that case, an independent cookie may be used by the third-party service. We do not have a mechanism to allow visitors to opt-out of cookies from vendors with whom we do not have a contractual relationship.

***

Related: Privacy Policy and Terms of Service


Be sure to mark these next few days down as an honest-to-goodness visit by spring!


Its time to start thinking about what a massive amount of snowmelt will mean for the state  the water has to go somewhere after all.




The grey background of winter gives way to spring in the District. (Jim Havard via Flickr)

Some breaks in the cloud cover this morning made me think that we might make a run at 80 degrees today, but a quick return to overcast skies by the early afternoon put that thought to bed. Despite the clouds, temperatures rose into the mid- to upper 70s, which is not so bad for the last weekend of March.

Listen to our daily D.C. forecasts: Apple Podcasts | Amazon Echo | More options

Through tonight: Remaining mostly cloudy and breezy through the overnight period. Quite mild as well, with lows in the mid- to upper 50s and southwest winds at 10 to 20 mph. Slight chance of some isolated showers toward the predawn hours.

View the current weather at The Washington Post.

Tomorrow (Sunday): Mild in the early morning hours, with rain showers likely between 8 a.m. and noon. Drier but much cooler in the afternoon, with temperatures hovering in the upper 40s to low 50s. Gusty winds (10 to 20-plus mph) from the northwest will make it feel colder. Clear, cold and windy Sunday night, with lows in the upper 20s to low 30s and northwest winds at 10 to 15 mph.

See Ian Livingstons forecast through the weekend. And if you havent already, join us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter and Instagram. For related traffic news, check out Gridlock.

Want our 5 a.m. forecast delivered to your email inbox? Subscribe here.


Every so often, Charter Day School in North Carolina would hold fire or tornado drills in which students had to kneel and protect their heads from flying debris, or crawl on the ground to avoid imaginary smoke.

But girls had a much more immediate disaster to fear: the boys.

I dont think the boys were supposed to be looking up our skirts, but they did, former student Keely Burks said in a statement to a North Carolina court. I wished I was wearing pants or shorts during those drills.

But she was prohibited by the schools uniform policy.

[Sexualized and fetishized: Girls in Britain say their school uniforms make them a target of harassment]

This week a judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina ruled that the policy toward girls clothing was unconstitutional, the culmination of a court fight that began in 2016 between three girls and the Leland, N.C., schools administrators.

In his ruling, Judge Malcolm Howard said that the policy at the public charter school violated the equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution because girls were treated differently than boys. Girls at the school, which serves kindergarten to the eighth grade, could only wear skirts, jumpers or skorts (a skirt with shorts underneath) as part of their uniforms, with an exception for physical education classes.

Baker Mitchell, founder of the Roger Bacon Academy, which runs Charter Day School, told The Washington Post in a statement that the Charter Day School Board is analyzing the opinion and will be meeting with counsel in the very near future to discuss their options moving forward.

[Beyond no means no: What most parents arent teaching their sons about sexual consent]

Before the lawsuit the policy had been controversial among some parents and students. Some students had circulated a petition that they say gathered over 100 signatures, only to have it confiscated, Burks wrote on the ACLUs blog in 2016.

Bonnie Peltier was attending an orientation for CDS in 2015 when she learned that the girls uniform rules required them to wear skirts, jumpers or skorts. She reached out to Mitchell about it.

Mitchell explained in an email that the dress code, along with other policies, were meant to preserve chivalry and respect among young women and men. He cited societal concerns such as teen pregnancies and casual sex for the need to create a learning environment that embodied traditional values.

[Teen boys rated their female classmates based on looks. The girls fought back.]

Frustrated with the policy, Peltier contacted the American Civil Liberties Union, who helped her and two other plaintiffs file a lawsuit in March of 2016.

Were having to tell our daughters, even though this is what theyre teaching you, this is not the way the world works anymore, Peltier told HuffPost last year.

According to the decision, the skirts requirement forced girls to pay constant attention to the positioning of their legs during class, distracting them from learning, and has led them to avoid certain activities altogether, such as climbing or playing sports during recess, all for fear of exposing their undergarments and being reprimanded by teachers or teased by boys."

The school had defended their policy, saying it was based on traditional values and is in place to instill discipline and keep order, Howard summarized in his decision. They argue that taking away the visual cues of the skirts requirement would hinder respect between the two sexes.

Howard did not find that argument persuasive. Defendants have shown no connection between these stated goals and the requirement that girls wear skirts, he wrote.

ACLU attorney Galen Sherwin said in a statement, This policy reflected antiquated gender stereotypes, intentionally sending the message that girls are not equal to boys.

She told The Post Saturday that two of the plaintiffs no longer attend Charter Day but that all the young women are very happy that other girls will have the opportunity to do that during our time at school.

Erika Booth, a plaintiff to the case, told The Post that her daughter had disliked the policy because in her daily life, when she is not at school, she never wears a skirt or a dress, ever. It is just against what she would do.

Now a seventh-grader at the school, Booths daughter said she is eager for a new uniform policy to take effect.

You can really do more in pants than you can in skirts, she said. Im just so happy."

Fred Barbash contributed to this report.

Read More:

A teen didnt know where she wanted to go to college. Then she was accepted to more than 50.

An activist used a legal argument to stop an ICE arrest. He says others should do the same.


Donta L. Bugg said his background makes him different from many judges.

His mother was in high school when he was born. His family was one paycheck away from everything being an issue. And he had an incarcerated uncle who wrote letters from prison, urging him to stay out of trouble.

But Fairfaxs Countys recently elected circuit court judge stands out for another reason as well: He is African American. Bugg, 38, is the first black judge to be elevated to the bench in Fairfax County in nearly a quarter-century. He began presiding over cases this month.

The appointment underscores a disparity. As Fairfax County and Northern Virginia have grown into one of the nations most diverse areas, the local justice system has remained largely white.

Nearly half of Fairfax Countys population is nonwhite, but only three of its 15 circuit court judges are minority. Though Fairfax Countys police chief has pushed to make the force more diverse, 81 percent of officers are white. The prosecutors and public defenders offices dont mirror the countys diversity either.

The issues are not unique to Fairfax. Many surrounding counties are trying to close the same gap.



Fairfax County Circuit Court Judge Donta L. Bugg is the first African American to be elevated to the bench there in nearly a quarter-century. (Courtesy of Donta L. Bugg)

I think the issue of the quality of justice and the perception of justice in the community suffers when theres not a fulsome representation of the community on the court, said former federal and Fairfax County judge Gerald Bruce Lee, who is African American and has pushed for more diversity on the bench.

Bugg said his background will inform his work.

Bugg, who grew up in Newport News, said he was largely raised by his grandmother, while his mother worked three jobs to support the family. His first exposure to the law came through the legal drama Matlock, which his grandmother liked to watch on TV.

He said he also knew a number of people who were involved in the criminal justice system. They included the uncle, who became a pen pal of sorts for Bugg while serving a lengthy sentence for robbery. Bugg said the experiences gave him a rounded view of those accused of crimes.

A lot of people hear criminal defendant and they think they are a bad person, Bugg said. They are people who have hopes and dreams.

Bugg attended the University of Maryland on a track scholarship and was the team captain, he said. He dreamed of becoming an Olympic hurdler, but injuries set him back.

When he graduated, he applied for the Montgomery County police academy and law school while working a dead-end job at Enterprise Rent-a-Car. Bugg chose law school at the University of Richmond.

He graduated and spent 13 years working in criminal and family law, which included launching his own firm in 2010.

My practice took me all over the state and D.C., Bugg said. Sometimes, I had a sense that people just didnt get their day in court. . . . I think somebody with my experience and background would be a great way to be of service.

Virginia state Sen. Scott A. Surovell (D), who backed Bugg for judge in the General Assembly, said his performance on a number of cases turned heads in the legal community. Surovell said he was impressed because Bugg had a promising career in private practice but chose to be a judge instead.

That tells me hes doing it for the right reasons, Surovell said.

Lee said Bugg argued before him in U.S. District Court in Alexandria on a number of occasions. Lee called Bugg smart and a first-rate lawyer.

Bugg is the first African American to take the bench in Fairfax County since juvenile court judge Gayl Branum Carr was elected in 1994. Carr is still serving. Fairfax Countys first black circuit court judge, Marcus D. Williams, was nominated in 1990 and served 22 years before retiring in 2012.

Surovell said there were a number of reasons the county bench is not as diverse as it could be. He said many talented minority attorneys choose to stay in private practice. He said the explosion in diversity has occurred in the past two decades, meaning there may be a lag between young minorities getting law degrees and then coming back to work in the county and eventually being considered for judgeships.

Finally, he said the various arms of the criminal justice system need to do better to recruit minorities for jobs.

I think theres been a kind of complacency, Surovell said. You have to make a conscious effort to diversify.

Read more:

Man who killed Muslim teen sentenced to life in prison

From defendant to top prosecutor, this tattooed Texas DA represents a new wave in criminal justice reform

Neo-Nazi sympathizer pleads guilty to federal hate crimes for plowing car into protesters at Charlottesville rally

Local newsletters: Local headlines (8 a.m.) | Afternoon Buzz (4 p.m.)

Like PostLocal on Facebook | Follow @postlocal on Twitter | Latest local news




Cherry blossoms on the Mall. (C Buoscio/Flickr)

TODAYS DAILY DIGIT

A somewhat subjective rating of the days weather, on a scale of 0 to 10.

8/10: Warm with at least some sun on a Saturday. Ill take it!

EXPRESS FORECAST

Today: Mostly to partly sunny. Highs: Mid-70s to near 80.

Tonight: Showers late at night. Lows: Near 50 to mid-50s.

Tomorrow: Morning showers, clearing and breezy afternoon. Highs: Mid-50s to near 60.

View the current weather at The Washington Post headquarters.

FORECAST IN DETAIL

Some spots could see a temperature swing of more than 40 or 45 degrees in the days ahead. A surge of warmer air is here today out ahead of a cold front. That front moves through early Sunday and it turns truly cold by Sunday night. If youre willing to wade through the crowds, today may be preferable for a visit to the cherry blossoms.

Get our daily forecasts on your Amazon Alexa device. Click here to find out how.

Today (Saturday): Its a lot like yesterday except it should end up a little warmer and a little less cloudy. While theres an outside chance of a late-day shower, any of that would be quick-hitting and minor. Temperatures head to the mid-70s and perhaps as warm as 80 should we see enough sun. Winds are out of the south around 10 mph. Confidence: Medium-High

Tonight: Clouds thicken back up as a front approaches. We could see some showers at times, especially after midnight. Lows are mostly in a near 50 to mid-50s range. Confidence: Medium-High

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest updates. For related traffic news, check out Gridlock. Keep reading for the forecast through the weekend...

Tomorrow (Sunday): A cold front passes during the morning. This is when showers may be most numerous, although its also possible we will mainly be missed as they redevelop east during the day. Cooler air is filtering in either way, with daytime readings mainly maxing out in a mid-50s to near 60 range. Winds are rather gusty, out of the northwest as high as 20 mph or so in the afternoon, which means gusts into the 30-mph range and higher. Confidence: Medium-High

Tomorrow night: Skies trend fully clear with time. Itll stay rather windy through the night, with sustained out of the northwest around 15 to 20 mph. Add in lows ranging from the mid-20s to mid-30s and its feeling quite chilly. Confidence: Medium-High

A LOOK AHEAD

Its a clear and cool start to the workweek Monday. Winds are still feisty as well, although theyre tending to diminish with time. Highs are mainly in a 50 to 55 degree range, which is a good bit below normal as we move into early April. Confidence: Medium-High

Winds are down and temperatures are up by Tuesday. Temperatures head toward highs around 60 as partly sunny conditions grace the area. Confidence: Medium-High


Virginia Tech Coach Buzz Williams looked perfectly calm as his team trailed with 1.1 seconds left against Duke in Friday nights East Region semifinal at Capital One Center. Why wouldnt he be? His team trailed by just two and had possession underneath its basket. Williams had drawn up the perfect play to tie the game. Senior point guard Justin Robinson grabbed the ball and lobbed it to the rim for teammate Ahmed Hill.

But even as Hill grabbed the ball midair and had a wide-open layup to tie the game, he was quickly reminded of how cruel this game can be this time of year. His tip-in veered to the left as he was shadowed by Dukes Zion Williamson, and he fell to the floor as the buzzer sounded. Williamson grabbed the ball and handed it politely to the ref before walking under the scoreboard, which read: Duke 75, Virginia Tech 73.

Im not even going to lie to you, Williamson said. When [Hill] caught it, I said, Were going to go to overtime. 

The Hokies had not been to the Sweet 16 in 52 years, but then again they had never seen a player like Williamson either. The electric freshman finished with 23 points on 11-for-14 shooting and RJ Barrett added 18 for the Blue Devils, who will meet Michigan State in the Elite Eight on Sunday. Kerry Blackshear Jr. had 18 points for Virginia Tech, which was looking to keep one of the best seasons in school history alive.

[Michigan State storms past LSU to Elite Eight as freshmen come up big]

Virginia Tech overcame a six-point deficit with 1:21 remaining and had several looks to take the lead in the final seconds. But the best was for Hill, who couldnt convert and threw his hands up in protest afterward, looking for a foul on Williamson.

It was a lob play that we ran a lot last year, Hill said. It was the first time we ran it this year. I saw that they switched. . . . Justin threw a great pass, and I just came up short.

I tried to keep my eyes locked on the rim. It just bounced to the left.

These two teams had met just over a month ago in Blacksburg, with the Hokies winning, 77-72, in a game that was more remembered for who didnt play than who did. Duke was without Williamson, who was still nursing a knee injury. The Hokies were without Robinson, who had a foot injury that kept him out for 12 games. Both of those players were on the court Friday night, but the Blue Devils were without freshman forward Cam Reddish.

We didnt know until right before the game . . . [Reddish] had something wrong with his knee, Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said.

The Blue Devils shuffled their lineup and leaned heavily on their two other freshman stars, Williamson and Barrett, to carry the load.

[Sweet 16 game recaps and Elite Eight schedule]

A key to beating Duke, as Williams explained earlier in the week, was to take more field goals attempts as a team than the Blue Devils. That would mean Virginia Tech was not giving up easy points off turnovers and in transition. It worked in the first half. The Hokies had two more field goal attempts and two more free throw attempts, even though Williamson impacted both ends with dazzling finishes and blocks.

Both teams slogged through offensive slumps late in the first half. Virginia Tech missed six of seven shots. Duke went the final 3:29 of the first half without a field goal, and after Barrett missed a free throw with two seconds left, Hill nearly banked in a desperation heave from half court. Williams belted out a big laugh on the sideline as it hit the front of the iron, with his team leading 38-34 as it ran back to the locker room.

Duke look determined as it returned to the court for the second half, with Barrett immediately attacking the lane for a quick score. That set the tone for a torrid pace the rest of the way. With Virginia Tech shadowing Williamsons every move, Barrett found his rhythm in the second half. He scored 11 of the teams 13 points through one stretch, including a coast-to-coast drive that he ended with an acrobatic layup to give Duke a 53-52 lead with 12:08 remaining.

The Blue Devils took the upper hand from there, seizing an eight-point lead thanks in part to Williamson finishing a thunderous alley-oop on a lob from guard Tre Jones. Virginia Tech pulled back within five after Robinson finished a three-point play following a layup and a foul, but Williamson again responded with a strong finish in the lane.

Virginia Tech again used a three-point play, this time from Blackshear, to trim Dukes lead to 64-61 with just over six minutes left. The Hokies had a chance to get even closer on the ensuing possession, and Robinson looked as if he had a clean finish at the rim. But Williamson trailed from behind and violently blocked that attempt, and Jones finished a pullup jumper on the other end. Williamson made it 68-64 with another finish with 4:51 left. The Hokies got back within two on a pair of Blackshear free throws, but Jones again hit a three-pointer from the corner.

On the next possession, Williamson sent the overflowing crowd at Capital One Arena to its feet one last time. He delivered a spin move in the post and elevated for a two-handed slam, flexing and huffing once he landed.

Still, just as it had done in games all season, especially without Robinson, Virginia Tech figured out a way to position itself to win. It trailed by six with 1:21 left, but Blackshear and Robinson each scored to cut it to 75-73, and Duke missed a crucial free throw that gave the Hokies a chance in the final seconds. Hill air-balled a three-pointer, but Blackshear came up with a decisive offensive rebound before Williams called a timeout with five seconds left to draw up one final play. Guard Ty Outlaw missed a three-pointer out of the timeout, but Duke knocked the ball out of bounds with 1.1 seconds left. Then came the final miss.

To even be in that position obviously is a lot of work, Williams said. But if we were to replay it again right now, I would call the exact same plays because of my faith and trust in those guys.




Capitals right wing Brett Connolly is a "game-time decision" with an illness. (John McDonnell/The Washington Post)

TAMPA  A mysterious illness working its way through the Washington Capitals locker room has taken its latest victim. Forward Brett Connolly is considered a game-time decision for Saturday nights game against the Tampa Bay Lightning after he wasnt feeling well enough to participate in the teams morning skate, according to Coach Todd Reirden. Connolly is the fourth player on the team to fall ill in the past eight days.

A little bit of adversity again so its about finding a way to work through it, Reirden said. Itll be a game-time decision, see how he does the rest of the day.

It started with Carl Hagelin last Friday; he was a late scratch against the Minnesota Wild with an illness. The next day, center Evgeny Kuznetsov was sent home from the teams practice facility for the same reason, but he then played on Sunday. Forward T.J. Oshie was under the weather Thursday and didnt play against the Carolina Hurricanes, but hell be back in the lineup Saturday.

[On the precipice of another 50-goal season, Capitals Alex Ovechkin is getting his due]

This would be the first game Connolly has missed all season. Hes having a career year with 22 goals and 23 assists, and if hes out Saturday, winger Andre Burakovsky is expected to take his third-line right wing spot. The Lightning have already clinched the Presidents Trophy with the NHLs best record, but this game could have some standings implications for the Capitals. Washington has a three-point lead on the New York Islanders for first place in the Metropolitan Division, and the Islanders host Buffalo on Saturday night.

Between our medical staff and our trainers, they do a really good job disinfecting everything, Reirden said. Its just been strange how its gone like this, one by one. Its nice you can replace one guy at a time; its when you get six or seven guys sick that you get in trouble. Especially this late in the season, we dont need to be dealing with this. But were fine in a way and its opening up some chances for others.

Caps expected lineup:



Ovechkin-Backstrom-Wilson

Vrana-Kuznetsov-Oshie

Hagelin-Eller-Burakovsky

Stephenson-Dowd-Boyd



Djoos-Carlson

Orlov-Niskanen

Orpik-Jensen



Holtby to start  Isabelle Khurshudyan (@ikhurshudyan) March 30, 2019

Read more from The Post:

On the precipice of another 50-goal season, Capitals Alex Ovechkin is getting his due

With Michal Kempny down, Capitals look to Nick Jensen to step up

Capitals clinch postseason spot with win over Hurricanes in possible playoff preview

Caps jerk Evgeny Kuznetsov kindly suggests that curmudgeon Don Cherry shut his mouth

President Trump welcomes Capitals, encourages them toward a second Stanley Cup




Washington Capitals left wing Alex Ovechkin (8) is on the cusp of his eighth season with at least 50 goals. (Nick Wass)

TAMPA  The Washington Capitals bench stood to watch the puck slide down the ice, poised for an empty net goal late in Thursday nights game against the Carolina Hurricanes. It went just wide, and what has felt like a foregone conclusion for roughly half the season would have to wait at least one more night. Captain Alex Ovechkin didnt seem nearly as disappointed as everyone else. What could have been his 50th goal of the season missed by inches.

Even enemy arenas now often root for him to reach this feat or another milestone, wanting to witness some history.

See how quick it changes when the team wins and were doing good? center Nicklas Backstrom said. Its a different story.

After years of weathering criticism  for not winning a Stanley Cup, for not being committed to two-way play, for not being enough of a team player  the perception of Ovechkin has changed over the past year, from a great player who was considered flawed to simply a great player who at last is beloved by most. He won a championship, and he did it with the defensive detail and team game so many thought he was incapable of. Now, as Ovechkin is again on the precipice of 50 goals, he finally has the acceptance of the NHL and those around it. They celebrate what he has accomplished without also pointing out what he hasnt. At 33 years old, he can become just the third player in league history with eight 50-goal campaigns, joining legends Mike Bossy and Wayne Gretzky. He would be just the fourth player to score that many goals in a season at this age or older.

Its obviously not too difficult for him, Tampa Bay captain Steven Stamkos said. Hes found a way to consistently produce in this league. Hes a horse out there. Hes a big, strong guy. His longevity has been amazing in terms of staying healthy and staying out on the ice and just producing. Its amazing to see. Im sure he had some doubters out there that think its going to stop, but he just finds a way.

Hes motivated, he loves to score goals, and with the shot that he has, when he shoots it, its going to go in a lot of the time.

[Capitals clinch postseason spot with win over Hurricanes in possible playoff preview]

Its the magnitude of Ovechkins longevity that has led to more appreciation as he has gotten older, similar to what happened with Jaromir Jagr as he continued to play past age 40. Players entering the league now are smaller and quicker, forcing the game to trend toward rapid puck movement, but Ovechkin is a vintage model in the midst of all of that. At 6-foot-3 and 235 pounds, he can play a physical style thats becoming rarer in todays NHL and still appeals to the purists. But his shot is still so mystifying that Ovechkin hasnt had trouble keeping up with the younger generation  and he has the youthful enthusiasm and gap-toothed grin to fit in with the kids.

Hes been that guy for so long, said 21-year-old Carolina Hurricanes sniper Sebastian Aho. Its not just the one year he scores 50; its like every year."

Said NBC Sports Network analyst Mike Milbury: He is a physical throwback. We used to call it truck-driver strong. Hes actually beefy and bold with a little bit of an edge.

Milbury was among Ovechkins harshest critics throughout his career. The former NHL player, head coach and general manager called Ovechkin a coach killer and described him as just a one-dimensional player. But he gushed about Ovechkin during the Capitals Stanley Cup run last postseason, and he has continued to do so this year as Ovechkin surprised even some of his teammates by showing up to training camp in impressive shape after a short offseason that featured some very public partying.

[Son of Mario Lemieux helps carry Arizona State to first NCAA hockey tournament]

Ive changed my mind on him a lot, Milbury said. Its my job to be critical  analytical is a better word for it  but Ive always admired his physical skills. Hes just such a bull. His effort level on most nights was there physically but not always mentally. I dont think he thought the game through thoroughly, and I wondered whether he would finally get it. ...

"I thought there was a change in his approach, the little aspects of the game that mark a winner as opposed to an immensely gifted player. The little things like line changes, backchecking in the right spots, being willing to a block a shot at the right time, not spending three minutes on a shift.

[With Michal Kempny down, Capitals look to Nick Jensen to step up]

When Ovechkin first stormed into the NHL as a 20-year-old, his talent dazzled, but he was scrutinized by the old guard for his flamboyant celebrations. Then, after his production slumped to 32 goals during the 2010-11 season and he followed with 38 in 2011-12  marks that still would be career years for most players  some questioned his commitment off the ice. Others posited that it could just be the beginning of Ovechkins decline. Ovechkin responded with 32 goals in 48 games the following year, the lockout-shortened 2012-13 campaign. He then put up three straight seasons with at least 50 goals. But he was flayed again for the teams shortcomings in the postseason.

We had been losing a lot in the first, second round and stuff like that, and people wanted us to go further, Backstrom said. Without that [success], youve got to get criticized. And it wasnt just him. It was the whole team. I just think thats normal. But it can change pretty quick in hockey."

These days, Ovechkin and his teammates raucous celebrations with the Stanley Cup were applauded, and his frequent milestones are no longer discussed with an asterisk. That he has been seen wearing a Well Im not Michael Jordan hoodie is considered more endearing than arrogant, as was his confidence Tuesday that he would score his 50th goal next game. Checking off that final item on his bucket list has helped Ovechkin feel freer, too, even if he never paid much mind to what was being said outside of his own locker room.

Maybe his game isnt yet back to the level it was in the playoffs a year ago, but this could be the most complete play he has shown over the course of the regular season. It hasnt gone unnoticed or underappreciated, including on the play Ovechkin nearly scored his 50th goal Thursday night in Carolina. Seconds before he shot the puck down the ice, he blocked a slap shot by Hurricanes defenseman Jaccob Slavin as his team defended a late six-on-five push.

To me, 50, not 50, lets talk about the two-way play and talk about him blocking shots, Capitals Coach Todd Reirden said. When you go back to huge difference-makers in our run last year and our success this year, its improved two-way play by him, and thats why hes out there at the end in that situation to get that opportunity. Hes growing a lot in that regard.




When Bryce Harper returns to Nats Park, he'll face a familiar foe on the mount: Max Scherzer. (Matt Slocum/AP)

The Washington Nationals are going with Max Scherzer against the Philadelphia Phillies on Tuesday, so they can keep their ace on regular rest with a surplus of early-season off days.

And that decision carries even more significance than usual, at least for fans and television viewers. Scherzer will face Bryce Harper in his return to Washington.

Scherzer threw 7 innings and 109 pitches in a 2-0 loss to the New York Mets on Thursday. Manager Dave Martinez originally had Scherzer making his second start against the Phillies on Wednesday  with Anibal Sanchez making his Nationals debut a day before  but the pitchers have been flipped as Washington plans to keep a four-man rotation for the first two weeks of the year. Scherzer will have a normal four days between starts and welcome Harper back to Nationals Park after he signed a 13-year, $330 million deal with the Phillies in February.

[Busloads of Phillies fans are coming to Nationals Park for Bryce Harpers return]

If it is with the Phillies, hey, we got to face him, Scherzer said Feb. 28, as news of Harpers signing was breaking on social media. Itll be fun.

Now that fun will come a day earlier than expected. It is hard to place too much meaning on April games, especially since the season stretches through the spring, summer and into the fall. But Harper, once the Nationals homegrown franchise player, will step into the box against one of the best pitchers in the world, his teammate of three seasons, Washingtons anchor and the pulse of its clubhouse. That will mean more than enough. Clear your schedule for just after 7 p.m. on Tuesday.

Read more on the Nationals:

Trea Turners three-steal opener indicates just how long his base-running leash is

Boswell: In opener, Nats show that, fundamentally, not much has changed

Svrluga: When it comes to Anthony Rendon, lock him up  for the sake of the Nationals future

The experts believe the Nationals will make the postseason

Nonstop: Max Scherzer keeps getting better with age

Nats raised their food game at Nats Park, but you better bring your wallet


Baby watch for one of the most watched females in Washington has begun.

The National Zoo said its female giant panda, Mei Xiang, was artificially inseminated Thursday. Now experts at the zoo will closely monitor her, as they wait three to six months to know whether shell bear a cub.

 We artificially inseminated #MeiXiang overnight! It will be three to six months before we know if she is pregnant.  MORE: https://t.co/jeOSwAPkBV #PandaStory@FONZNationalZoo pic.twitter.com/57VLdggWX0  National Zoo (@NationalZoo) March 29, 2019

Getting a panda pregnant isnt easy.

For starters, giant pandas are in estrus for only 24 to 72 hours each year. Because the window is so short, zookeepers have to be ready. Plus, they often have false pregnancies, triggering elation but then disappointment among panda watchers.

Officials said zookeepers had been monitoring Mei Xiangs behavior and hormones since mid-March and noticed she was entering her breeding season. Hormone reports showed her estrogen levels peaked Wednesday evening  a sign that she was ovulating.

Mei Xiang had been acting as a panda thats ready to breed does: getting restless, vocalizing, playing in water, wandering her yard and marking her scent. As a female panda is about to reach peak estrus, experts said, these behaviors increase in frequency.



Pierre Comizzoli, right, a reproductive physiologist at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, and Don Neiffer, chief veterinarian at the National Zoo, prepare for artificial insemination on giant panda Mei Xiang on Friday. (Roshan Patel/ National Zoo)

Her keepers noticed, as did the zoos adult male panda, Tian Tian. He vocalized to her and constantly tried to keep her in his sight for the past week, according to a statement from the zoo. Over the past few days, he spent most of his days at the howdy window that separates their two yards. But Mei Xiang played hard to get and didnt respond positively to his courting.

Every giant panda breeding season is slightly different, but Mei Xiang and Tian Tian have been displaying very clear and strong behaviors this year, said Steven Monfort, the zoos director. He said the pair made it extremely obvious to us that they were preparing for breeding.

Mei Xiang was inseminated using semen from Tian Tian. Now its time, as Monfort said, to wait and see.



Mei Xiang has a bit of bamboo. (Skip Brown/National Zoo)

The zoos panda team said they wont know for several months whether the insemination worked. The anticipation could lead to disappointment: Over the past two years, Mei Xiang has experienced false pregnancies.

[No giant panda cub this year, National Zoo announces]

Ultrasounds will track Mei Xiang over the next three to six months. A female panda may act as if shes pregnant: nesting, eating less and not liking noise. So experts said they wont know for sure whether shes pregnant until they see a developing fetus on an ultrasound. But even this isnt easy: Giant pandas are only about the size of a stick of butter at birth.

Mei Xiang will be 21 this summer and is getting close, experts said, to the end of her reproductive life cycle, though theyve said it is still possible for her to get pregnant.

She has given birth to three surviving cubs: Tai Shan, Bao Bao and Bei Bei. Two of her panda cubs  Tai Shan, who was born in 2005, and Bao Bao, who was born in 2013, went to China last year. Bei Bei, who was born in August 2015, is set to move to China by the time he turns 4.

China, home to giant pandas, leases the animals to zoos around the globe. Giant pandas are listed as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Experts said there are about 500 in captivity and about 1,800 in the wild.


D.C. police detectives are investigating the fatal shooting of a man found early Saturday morning in the hallway of an apartment building in Northeast Washington.

Police identified the victim as 54-year-old Anthony Williams. Around 6:08 a.m., police were called to an apartment building in the 300 block of 62nd Street NE. Police said Williams, who had no fixed address, was shot multiple times and was unconscious when found.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact police at 202-727-9099. A reward of up to $25,000 is being offered for information that leads to an arrest and conviction in the case.

Read more:

Local newsletters: Local headlines (8 a.m.) | Afternoon Buzz (4 p.m.)

Like PostLocal on Facebook | Follow @postlocal on Twitter | Latest local news


Rescue personnel train near a World Airways DC-10 at Baltimore-Washington International Marshall Airport. The plane made a hard landing at BWI in 2009. No one died, but the plane was severely damaged. (BWI)

Columnist

I have made many trips to Baltimore-Washington International Marshall Airport to pick up or drop off family and friends. I often take extra time to visit the observation deck in the terminal to take in the always-interesting aviation scene.

On many of these occasions I noticed what I thought was a large cargo plane sitting on the tarmac. I never thought much of it until realizing on a recent visit that the plane has never moved. So I did what any self-respecting aviation buff (plane spotter, if you prefer) would do, and made an inquiry at the terminals information desk.

Apparently this World Airways DC-10 touched down extremely hard at the airport many years ago, in the process greatly damaging the landing gear. The airline decided not to repair the plane and it has been there ever since!

I think it would make interesting material for a column.

 John Sery, Silver Spring

Firm. Thats how the captain, Craig Gatch, later described the moment of contact his plane made with Runway 10 a little after 1 p.m. on May 6, 2009.

The 168 passengers on board may have used a different word, especially since a split second later, the front of the plane pitched up, then fell again, slamming the nose landing gear against the runway a second time, shredding one of its two tires.

It was 3.2 gs, man, Norris Burkes, a passenger on Flight 8535, told Answer Man. We felt it. It felt like we had been in a small accident. We porpoised. And I remember one person on the plane yelling, Get a hold of it! Get a hold of it! 

In the cockpit, co-pilot Kirby Lottridge and flight engineer Brent Foster shouted, Go around! Go around!

The plane lifted back up into the air.

The next 20 minutes were uneasy ones for all aboard, as air traffic controllers cleared nearby airspace, the stricken jet circled, and fire and rescue trucks mustered near the runway. The hard landing had caused oxygen masks to drop from the ceiling. One of the hydraulic systems failed and some of the planes instrumentation was knocked out. (The flight crew reported that they were down to their whiskey compass. Thats the magnetic instrument that sits inside a liquid-filled orb.)



The DC-10 is used in an emergency planning exercise at the airport in 2017. Mannequins below the aircraft stand in as victims. (BWI)

The 30-year-old plane was a charter. The passengers were U.S. military personnel returning from Iraq. Burkes was an Air Force chaplain and lieutenant colonel. The irony was not lost on him and others that they had survived a war zone only to face death in Baltimore.

Since the original runway was now speckled with debris, the plane was directed to Runway 33L. The second landing went off without a hitch. When the DC-10 rolled to a stop, the passengers broke into applause.

According to the National Transportation Safety Board, the first officer suffered a serious neck injury. The captain, flight engineer and nine flight attendants reported minor injuries.

What had happened? The NTSB determined that the pilot mishandled the initial firm landing, causing the second bounce that damaged the nose gear.

Fatigue may have clouded his judgment. In the previous 11 days, hed flown as either a pilot or passenger from Baltimore to Texas, then Maine, Hong Kong, Manila, Guam, Hawaii, California and Germany.

To make matters worse, on his trip over the Pacific, the captain had eaten bad food. His illness returned on the flight he piloted from Germany. Wrote the NTSB: He indicated that he experienced digestive system discomfort that required frequent lavatory breaks.

World Airways recommended that its pilots undergo more balked and bounced landing training. The airline ceased operations in 2014.

As for the plane, the aborted first landing had buckled and fractured a portion of its forward pressure bulkhead. There was also extensive cracking in the skin of the forward fuselage. The airplane would not fly again.

We worked with the airline at the time to have it donated for use as a training aid, said BWI spokesman Jonathan Dean.

The plane sits on the south side of the airport, near Dorsey Road. Its three General Electric jet engines were removed, along with the avionics, but there are still seats inside.

The aircraft is a valuable training resource for fire and rescue, law enforcement and security agencies, said Dean.

Passenger Burkes, now an author, speaker and part-time hospice chaplain living near Sacramento, said the hard landing affected him for a few years. Theres a chapter on it in Heros Highway, his book about his Iraq deployment.

He spoke with Answer Man after stepping off a flight from Honduras. My wifes sitting here next to me, he said. We used to grab hands pretty tight on all the landings after that.

Twitter: @johnkelly

For previous columns, visit washingtonpost.com/john-kelly.


Columnist

A debt of gratitude to Paul Talalay, a Baltimore resident and broccoli researcher, who died earlier this month at age 95. His lifes work had led to a discovery that gave credence to what my mother had tried so hard to teach me.

Broccoli is good for you, shed say. My taste buds begged to differ. I wouldnt be allowed to go outside and play unless I ate my broccoli. So, Id sit at the dinner table gagging and making faces, seriously doubting that anything so nasty could be good for you.

Enter Talalay, who oversaw research that found in broccoli a chemical compound, sulforaphane, that could prevent cancer. Sulforaphane has since been shown to aid in the treatment of autism and diabetes.

[Paul Talalay, who found cancer-preventing qualities in broccoli, dies]

Today, three months into eating a plant-based, whole-food diet, I can fully appreciate what mom was trying to do some 60-plus years ago.

Talalay, long associated with Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, was an enzymologist and pharmacologist, a graduate of Yale Medical School who received a bachelors degree in molecular biophysics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Mom graduated from Tuskegee Institute and taught typing and shorthand at my high school.

How did she know that broccoli was good for you?

Or, say, garlic? To hear her tell it, garlic was Russian penicillin. It helped prevent colds. In 2012, researchers at St. Joseph Family Medicine Residency in Mishawaka, Indiana, did a study that found  you guessed it  garlic helped prevent colds.

Tomatoes and beets were good for the blood, she said, and carrots could improve your eye sight. In 1998, two researchers at the University of Toronto reported that lycopene found in tomatoes could prevent cancer. And in other studies, beets and carrots also did as advertised.

Where did moms insights come from? Her mother  and her grandmother before that, and on back to the family roots in West Africa.

African people were more plant-based than animal eaters, said Danni McGhee, a plant-based nutrition coach, vegan chef and author of the book, Ready to Go Vegan?, a guide for transitioning to an affordable plant-based diet. As enslaved peoples, they brought that tradition with them to the Americas. My folks are from Jamaica, so for most of their childhood they grew their own food and lived off the land, which is something our ancestors always did.

McGhee, owns a D.C.-based nutrition education company, Dam Good Vegan (the name derives from her initials, Danni Adrienne McGhee). In her work, she has seen some encouraging changes.

Just in Washington, D.C., more people are getting connected with what I call their indigenous roots, she said. So many urban farms are cropping up, and a lot of people are growing their own foods when the weather permits.

I had lost that tradition to a microwave lifestyle.

Eschewing moms admonition to eat my fruits and vegetables, that an apple a day keeps the doctor away, Id opted for a processed food-based diet. Junk food. Fast food. Fake food. Food made from animals pumped up with hormones to make them grow faster.

I grew faster, too. Ballooned up this past winter while guzzling eggnog and holiday cakes. I was oblivious to all the estrogen that gets into cow milk. The next thing I know, Im getting man boobs.

Desperate to reverse the damage, I wrote a column last year asking for a tasty broccoli recipe. Readers responded with the most creative concoctions. The only problem was they all contained broccoli. But thank you anyway.

I also heard from Gwyn Whittaker, owner of GreenFare Organic Cafe in Herndon. She claimed to have a way to get me back on a healthy eating track: a 21-day plant-based Kickstart program. No broccoli. At least not at first.

The pounds started melting away after the first week. By the end of the program, my blood pressure and cholesterol had been reduced. I was sleeping better. With more energy, I began to exercise. In no time, chest fat was being turned into muscle.

Some of the GreenFare meals Id been eating had broccoli mixed in  sometimes hidden among the kale or spinach. I had not tasted it. No gagging. The sight of that would certainly have pleased mom.

Pericles Silva, a nutritionist who manages the cafe, reminded me: Its not just what you eat. Its what you dont eat. No more animals, no more dairy  especially eggnog.

Talalay, after his discovery about broccoli, also began a plant-based diet. Hed learned that consuming broccoli and other vegetables  including kale and watercress  helped the body create what a former student of his called a molecular defense against environmental insults that might cause cancer.

Mom would say Just eat it.

Talalay died March 10 of congestive heart failure.

According to an obituary by The Washington Posts Emily Langer, when Talalay began his research, hed lament the difficulty of convening other scientists to discuss dietary means of preventing cancer. Im sure my mother could empathize, given how she lamented over my revulsion to broccoli.

But they were both right  Talalays science confirming Moms generational wisdom.

And every now and then, Ill eat a piece of broccoli without even knowing it.

To read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/milloy.

Read more:

Local newsletters: Local headlines (8 a.m.) | Afternoon Buzz (4 p.m.)

Like PostLocal on Facebook | Follow @postlocal on Twitter | Latest local news




Members of the media and guests tour Facebook's offices in Cambridge, Mass., in January. (Elise Amendola/AP)

John Kelly is the chief executive of Graphika, a network analysis firm, and an affiliate at the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University.

If nothing else, the attorney generals summary of the Mueller report serves as a potent reminder of the ongoing problems the country faces with disinformation on social media. Foreign powers using the Internet to intervene in U.S. politics is a genuine problem  and theres little to suggest that it will go away any time soon.

Yet as Democrats push for disclosure of the full Mueller report and for legislation that would bolster election security to protect against foreign interference, there remains more to the story than the focus on Russian election influence would suggest. Some self-reflection is needed if we are to truly save ourselves.

Our online political discourse is being warped more by American manipulators than by foreign ones. Domestic online astroturfing by paid consultants and technically sophisticated volunteers predates social media, and the tools, techniques and ranks of practitioners have only multiplied in recent years.

This realization should not serve as an excuse for dismissing foreign interference. The weaponization of online political divides actually makes it easier for foreign influencers to inject their own agenda into the fray. Foreign sock puppets are easy to insert into large, semi-automated communities of formulaic partisans, where they can simply mimic domestic accounts until they are ready to inject their own signal into the stream. Recent accounts of Americans taking a page from the 2016 Russian playbook dont get it quite right: The foreign players arrived at a thriving casino.

This discouraging state of affairs is a far cry from the optimistic view of many, myself included, a decade ago: that the democratization of public voice would enhance democracy. It turned out that organized manipulators have captured a larger share of the conversation than normal citizens, and that the proliferation of social platforms is resulting in a proliferation of opportunities to manipulate. And it must be said clearly  all parts of the American political spectrum are being affected: #Resist is inorganically boosted alongside #MAGA.

Most of the dominant platforms are not unserious about political manipulations, nor do they underestimate their responsibilities in the face of democratic governments increasingly ready to bring down the regulatory gavel. I think they get it. But given the First Amendment and critical values of user privacy, this is very tricky terrain for them to navigate.

Online manipulation is not confined to politics but also affects commerce, including the advertising models at the heart of industry revenue. Online fakery is responsible for billions in misdirected online ad spending and costly uncertainty about the validity of metrics underpinning both traditional online advertising and the lucrative frontier of influencer marketing.

The platforms interest in curbing coordinated manipulation of online behavioral signals, commercial and political, points in a useful direction. The promise of the Internet we felt years ago relies on true signals emerging from real people. On most platforms, around most kinds of interests, these signals are authentic, and platforms are providing real benefits to their users. We dont want to throw the baby out with the bathwater, nor can the baby long tolerate such toxic bathwater.

The leading edge of data science tells us something important here: It is far easier (for sophisticated algorithms) to identify that something is being manipulated online than it is to attribute that manipulation to a specific actor. Without curtailing the vital protections that online anonymity provides to vulnerable, good-faith actors, a social, political and industry commitment to authenticity in online behavior, and the measurement thereof, could cut through many of our problems like a sword through the Gordian knot.

Facebook, a focal point for criticism around political manipulation, has proactively disclosed its internal discoveries of foreign information operations and developed policies to combat Coordinated Inauthentic Behavior (CIB) on its platform, backed by a serious investment in talent and technology to identify and eliminate it. Twitter has made a wonderful move by publicly releasing a treasure trove of important data on Russian, Iranian and other foreign state information operations for external researchers to examine, and is taking steps to make it harder to register and operate fake accounts at scale.

The industry should collaborate in following Facebooks and Twitters lead. My teams collaboration with a group at Oxford University to analyze Russias 2016 online influence operations for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence showed clearly how the various social media platforms are being leveraged together, and against one another. They therefore must cooperate closely with one another and researchers if they are to prevent this manipulation. Without such cooperation, even the biggest platforms will not be as effective as they could be, and smaller platforms will be utterly defenseless.

A serious effort to prevent any manipulation of Americas online political conversation, period, would drastically reduce opportunities for foreign influence of our political discussions in the process. It would also make for a better democracy. Americans on the right and the left have been vigorously targeted by foreign actors. They are also covertly manipulated by partisan domestic political organizations using the same kinds of deceptive tactics. Neither side should for a moment feel as though these facts in any way diminish the integrity or validity of their ideas and values  but both sides should want to stop it, cold.

Read more:

Clint Watts: Artificial intelligence is transforming social media. Can American democracy survive?

Anne Applebaum: We have learned a lot about online disinformation  and we are doing nothing

The Posts View: Twitter raises the curtain on disinformation. Other companies should take a tip.

Tai Nalon: Did WhatsApp help Bolsonaro win the Brazilian presidency?

Mark Zuckerberg: Protecting democracy is an arms race. Heres how Facebook can help.

Christian Caryl: We need more than indictments to counter foreign influence in our elections




Zach Norvell Jr. celebrates during Gonzaga's Sweet 16 win over Florida State. (Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images)

No. 1 seed Gonzaga will face No. 3 seed Texas Tech in the West Region final. Heres what you need to know.

When: 6:09 p.m. Eastern.

Where: Honda Center, Anaheim, Calif.

TV: TBS (Kevin Harlan, Reggie Miller, Dan Bonner and Dana Jacobson).

Odds: Gonzaga minus-4

[Catch up on Friday night's Sweet 16 action here]

How they got here: Gonzaga (33-3) finished the regular season 29-2, before losing to Saint Marys in the West Coast tournament final. The top-seeded Zags crushed No. 16 Fairleigh Dickinson in the NCAA tournaments first round, 87-49. They beat No. 9 Baylor in the second round, 83-71, and rarely trailed in a 72-58 win over No. 4 Florida State in the Sweet 16.

Texas Tech (29-6) shared the Big 12 regular season title with Kansas State before falling to West Virginia in the conference tournament quarterfinals. The No. 3 seed Red Raiders have hardly been tested in the NCAA tournament, with comfortable wins over No. 14 Northern Kentucky (72-57), No. 6 Buffalo (78-58) and No. 2 Michigan (63-44).

Elite Eight history: Gonzaga is in the Elite Eight for a fourth time. The Zags are 1-2 in their previous appearances, making their only Final Four appearance in 2017. Texas Tech is in the Elite Eight for the second time, after making its debut last season. The Red Raiders have never appeared in the Final Four.

Fast facts: Gonzaga entered the weekend leading the nation in field goal percentage, scoring offense and assist-to-turnover ratio. . . . Since 2009, the Zags have an NCAA tournament record of 17-2 as the higher seed. . . . Point guard Josh Perkins, Gonzagas career leader in assists, has played 152 career games, more than any player in the country. . . . Entering the tournaments second weekend, Gonzaga also led the country in average scoring margin (plus-23.9), while Texas Tech ranked eighth (plus-14.0). . . . Texas Techs Jarrett Culver was the first Big 12 conference player of the year in program history. . . . Texas Tech has led by at least eight at halftime in 10 of its past 15 games. . . . Texas Tech Coach Chris Beard has a 7-2 career NCAA tournament record, while Gonzagas Mark Few is 31-19.

They said it: Come to Spokane. You will love it.  Gonzagas Zach Norvell Jr., asked this week about his school.

We have a lot of guys who arent five-star guys. The coaching staff and Coach Beard . . . came from a mid-major and started out coaching random teams and has worked his way up, and a lot of our guys are the same way. We try to embrace that, you know. We werent the highest recruited guys, but that not doesnt mean we cant compete with the best of the country.  Texas Tech guard Matt Mooney.

We respect [Gonzaga] a lot. Theyre one of the best teams in college basketball and its going to be one of the best games in college basketball history.  Margo Beard, Texas Tech Coach Chris Beards youngest daughter.

Elite Eight schedule

Saturdays games

Anaheim (West Region)

No. 1 Gonzaga vs. No. 3 Texas Tech, 6:09 p.m., TBS

Louisville (South Region)

No. 1 Virginia vs. No. 3 Purdue, 8:49 p.m., TBS

Sundays games

Kansas City (Midwest Region)

No. 2 Kentucky vs. No. 5 Auburn, 2:20 p.m., CBS

Washington (East Region)

No. 1 Duke vs. No. 2 Michigan State, 5:05 p.m., CBS

Read more

Jarrett Culvers NBA draft stock is soaring  maybe into the top five

A largely overlooked recruit out of high school, the Texas Tech guards profile has risen with a breakout sophomore season and a sensational NCAA tournament.

Texas Tech believes in its defense  and Coach Chris Beard  before Gonzaga showdown

The Red Raiders have become an NCAA tournament wrecking ball on defense, with locker-room energy to match. Next up: perhaps the nations best offense.

Gonzagas frontcourt stars reach Elite Eight, but leave NBA scouts divided

The Bulldogs Rui Hachimura and Brandon Clarke have garnered all-conference honors, but the junior forwards remain divisive NBA prospects.

Dont sleep on the Cavaliers, no matter how hard they make it to stay awake

Its easy to criticize top-seeded Virginias ponderous style, columnist Jerry Brewer writes, but you cant argue with the results: a berth in the Elite Eight.

With Carsen Edwards, Purdue always has a shot. Lots of them, in fact.

The prolific guard says he doesnt think about shooting slumps, not about the torrid performance that drove the Boilermakers to their third straight Sweet 16.

Hes a killer: Virginias Kihei Clark might be small, but he delivers big plays

Diminutive freshman guard shows poise beyond his years in helping the top-seeded Cavaliers reach the brink of first Final Four berth since 1984.

Gregg Nigls perfect NCAA tournament bracket is busted  all the way to 348th place.

He got 49 straight picks correct, but took a hard tumble Thursday night.




The 1955 midcentury rambler in Falls Church, Va., was home to former Virginia senator Jim Webb. (HomeVisit)

The midcentury rambler on Lake Barcroft in Falls Church has been the site of several important milestones in Jim Webbs life. It is where Webb launched his successful campaign for public office, where he wrote three of his 10 books, and where he married his third wife.

Webb, who was a Democratic senator from Virginia from 2007 to 2013, is a decorated Marine veteran, Naval Academy graduate and graduate of Georgetown University Law School. He was secretary of the Navy from 1987 to 1988. His 1978 book Fields of Fire was a bestseller, and he won an Emmy Award for his PBS coverage of the Marines in Beirut in 1983. Webb also wrote and produced the 2000 movie Rules of Engagement.

1 of 99 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad  Distinguished homes for sale in the D.C. region View Photos The Washington Posts picks of distinguished local homes on the market. Caption The Washington Posts picks of distinguished local homes on the market. HomeVisit/HomeVisit Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

His marriage to Hong Le took place in front of the homes limestone fireplace in October 2005, a little more than a year after he purchased the 1955 house. The ceremony melded her Vietnamese customs with his Scottish-Irish traditions.

[Inside Tyler Perrys former Atlanta mansion]

The house, which is built into a hillside along the water, has undergone three significant transformations, two of which occurred during Webbs ownership. Right after he bought it, Webb modified the main level. He combined the two bedrooms in the back of the house into a master bedroom, moved the kitchen from the front to the back of the house and turned one of the rooms near the entrance into his office. He also redid the floors in Brazilian cherry.



im Webb launched his senate campaign and worked on three books in this office. (HomeVisit)

A couple of years later, Webb expanded the house by adding another level with three bedrooms and two bathrooms. He also installed a wrought-iron banister to the stairs, added decks to the first and second floors, enveloped the facade in stone, put in carved mahogany double doors at the entry and turned the carport into a two-car garage.

About five years ago, Webb updated the landscaping, adding stone walls and walkways around the property. He also renovated the swimming pools stone terrace and constructed wooden stairs connecting it to an enclosed space below the gazebo.



The back yard has a swimming pool, terrace and gazebo. (HomeVisit)

Despite all the changes, the house retains an echo of its midcentury past.

The home capitalizes on its access to the freshwater lake in the backyard. Every bedroom on the main and upper levels opens to a deck that overlooks the swimming pool and the lake. Surrounded by a wooded landscape on the more than half-acre property, the large deck off the upper level master suite feels almost like a treehouse. Another spacious deck off the kitchen and sunroom extends the living space on the main level.

The large rec room on the lower level has a fireplace and a door that leads to the pool terrace and gazebo.

The six-bedroom, six-bathroom, 5,136-square-foot house is listed at just under $1.9 million.




The 30-year fixed-rate average fell to 4.06 percent, its lowest level in 14 months. (J. Lawler Duggan/For The Washington Post)

Just a handful of months ago, mortgage rates were soaring. Now they are sinking.

According to data released Thursday by Freddie Mac, the 30-year fixed-rate average plunged to 4.06 percent, with an average 0.5 point. (Points are fees paid to a lender equal to 1 percent of the loan amount.) The 30-year fixed, which was 4.28 percent a week ago, had its biggest one-week drop in a decade. It was 4.4 percent a year ago and is at its lowest level in 14 months.

The 15-year fixed-rate average sank to 3.57 percent, with an average 0.4 point. It was 3.71 percent a week ago and 3.9 percent a year ago. The five-year adjustable-rate average dropped to 3.75 percent, with an average 0.3 point. It was 3.84 percent a week ago and 3.66 percent a year ago.

Rates have fallen substantially in the past four months. After hitting a seven-year high of 4.94 percent in November, the 30-year fixed-rate average has gone down nearly a percentage point, falling 88 basis points. (A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.)

Global and domestic economic concerns are driving rates lower. The Federal Reserves announcement last week that it was taking a cautious approach to increasing its benchmark rate and unwinding its balance sheet rattled investors, which were already concerned about Brexit, the U.S.-China trade war, and slowdowns in the German and Japanese economies.

[Large breach of mortgage borrowers data raises new concerns, questions]

Mortgage rates fell decisively this week as the fallout from last weeks policy announcement by the Federal Reserve and weak data from Europe inflamed uncertainty surrounding the strength of the global economy, said Matthew Speakman, a Zillow economic analyst. The [Feds] cautious decisions surprised markets and worsened many analysts concerns about the outlook for the global economy, boosting demand for Treasurys and pushing mortgage rates downward.

With investors stashing money in safe assets such as long-term bonds, the yield on the 10-year Treasury tumbled to 2.39 percent  its lowest level since December 2017. It has dropped 37 basis points since the beginning of the month.

Because mortgage rates are closely tied to the movement of long-term bonds, they also declined.

Bankrate.com, which puts out a weekly mortgage rate trend index, found that nearly two-thirds of the experts it surveyed say rates will remain relatively stable in the coming week.

Since rates have dropped so much in the last two weeks, I expect them to level off here for a bit, said Michael Becker, branch manager at Sierra Pacific Mortgage.

But Greg McBride, chief financial analyst with Bankrate.com, predicts rates could go down even more.

With lots of economic data on tap and more to come with Brexit, the setting is ripe for more nervousness and volatility among investors, which would be good news for mortgage rates, McBride said.

Meanwhile, fueled by falling rates, mortgage applications soared this week, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The market composite index  a measure of total loan application volume  increased 8.9 percent from a week earlier. The refinance index jumped 12 percent from the previous week, while the purchase index rose 6 percent.

The refinance share of mortgage activity accounted for 40.4 percent of all applications.

The ongoing decline in mortgage rates continues to deliver a solid boost to the mortgage market, with purchase applications last week increasing 6 percent and refinance applications surging over 12 percent, said Bob Broeksmit, MBA president and chief executive. Purchase activity has now risen year over year for six straight weeks, and momentum is likely to continue with the spring buying season underway.

More Real Estate:

New FHA rules make it tougher for people with heavy debt to get a mortgage

If youre self-employed or a gig worker, getting a mortgage just got easier

More people pay their mortgages on time, but how long will this good news last?


The Washington-area housing market had another solid year in 2018, neither overheating nor free-falling, but instead drifting placidly along.

For the most part, home prices rose modestly across the region. The limited supply of homes for sale put pressure on prices, but higher mortgage rates through most of the year kept them somewhat in check. The lack of inventory had a more profound effect on sales, which were sluggish overall.

The D.C. metro area housing market is performing well, but not real well, Terry L. Clower, director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, wrote in an email. If you are a seller, and have reasonable expectations on selling prices, you are likely thinking the market is very good, on average. If you are a buyer, not so much.





Two significant events  Amazons announcement that it was putting its second headquarters in Crystal City, and the prolonged federal government shutdown  came too late in the year to influence the 2018 numbers. Clower says the region will absorb the increased demand for housing caused by Amazon in the long run.

[Home buyers guide: Opening the door to ownership]

In the near term, there is some data and anecdotal evidence that investors are purchasing homes to convert to rental units and some sellers who have opted to wait until we see the first wave of HQ2 jobs arrive to [put] their homes on the market, he wrote.

The consequences of the changes to the tax laws that went into effect last year are unclear. The loss of the mortgage interest and state and local tax deductions has made owning a home less affordable for some homeowners, but the impact hasnt been noticeable so far.

Prices are up

The District enjoyed the biggest median price gain in single-family houses in the region last year, according to data provided by Black Knight, a national real estate analytics company. Prices improved to $679,000 in 2018 from $635,000 in 2017, the ninth consecutive year of increases in the District. Median price is not the same as average price. The median price represents the midpoint, meaning half the homes were sold for more than that price and half sold for less. D.C. condo prices were up slightly, rising to $451,000 from $450,000.

Condo prices were separated from single-family house prices to provide a more accurate picture of the market. Condos tend to be less expensive than houses and can drag down the median price in a Zip code.

[Experts weigh in on what the 2019 housing market will bring]

Virginia saw the next-greatest increase in single-family house median prices, rising to $582,000 from $566,000. Virginia condo prices jumped almost as much, increasing to $360,000 from $350,000.



The three-bedroom, three-bathroom duplex at 2015 Savannah Pl. SE, Washington, is listed at $369,900. The listing agent is Julie Modaressi of Long & Foster. (HomeVisit)

The four-bedroom, two-bathroom rowhouse at 5131 Fifth St. NW, Washington, is listed at $679,000. The listing agent is Annette Coram of RLAH Real Estate. (HomeVisit)

Maryland single-family house prices climbed to $386,000 from $380,000, while its condo prices slipped to $268,000 from $271,000. Although Marylands overall prices were lower than either the Districts or Virginias, its Zip code 20815 has the highest median price for a single-family house in the region last year. It was $1,175,000 in the Zip code for Chevy Chase, Md., one of nine Zip codes in the region where median prices were above $1 million.

The District had four Zip codes with single-family house median prices above $1 million in 2018, up from three in 2017: 20007 (Burleith, Foxhall Crescent, Georgetown, Massachusetts Avenue Heights, Glover Park) at $1,056,300; 20008 (Cleveland Park, Woodley Park, Van Ness, Kalorama) at $1,150,000; 20015 (Barnaby Woods, Chevy Chase) at $1,007,000; and 20016 (AU Park, Cathedral Heights, Friendship Heights, Wesley Heights, Tenleytown, Spring Valley, Palisades) at $1,065,000.



The four-bedroom, three-bathroom townhouse at 1224 Fourth St. SW, No. 7, Washington, is listed at $825,000. The listing agent is Lewis Bashoor of Long & Foster. (HomeVisit)

The three-bedroom, two-bathroom rowhouse at 653 Morton Pl. NE, Washington, is listed at $729,000. The listing agent is Thomas McGlynn of Re/Max. (HomeVisit)

More than 15 percent of the single-family houses and 4 percent of the condos sold in the District in 2018 were for more than $1 million. Taken together, that means one in every five homes sold for $1 million or more in the District in 2018.

Virginia had three Zip codes: 22201 (Clarendon, Ballston, Lyon Village, Lyon Park) at $1,125,000; 22101 (McLean) at $1,090,000; and 22102 (McLean) at $1,150,000. The two in Maryland were Zip codes 20815 and 20816 (Bethesda) at $1,010,000.

The pricing gains are not anywhere near levels that indicate a bubble, Clower wrote. Still, overall affordability remains a major challenge for many households in the region.

Sales of single-family houses in the District dropped to 3,581 last year from 3,723 in 2017, while sales of D.C. condos sank to 3,550 from 3, 844. Sales of single-family houses in Maryland fell to 30,141 from 33,182, while Maryland condos were down to 18,537 from 20,287. Sales of single-family houses in Virginia slid to 22,132 from 23,799, while Virginia condos decreased to 20,283 from 20,925.



The four-bedroom, two-bathroom split-level at 1305 Ray Rd., Hyattsville, Md., is listed at $374,995. The listing agent is Bernie Alvey of Exit Landmark Realty. (Bernie Alvey)

The three-bedroom, three-bathroom rancher at 3511 Castleleigh Rd., Beltsville, is listed at $360,000. The listing agent is Monica Bryant of Redfin. (Michael Harrison/Redfin)

Pricey housing

Chevy Chase, Md., where half the single-family houses in 2018 sold for more than $1 million, has plenty to recommend it. Although the Zip code 20815 encompasses 10 to 12 neighborhoods, each with their own characteristics, they mostly share a similar housing stock of well-built, older homes on ample size lots with access to good public schools and a central location just over the District line and near the Beltway.

[The most expensive homes sold in the Washington region in 2018]

Houses in the 20815 Zip code tend to be snapped up quickly. Elysia Casaday, a real estate agent with Compass who has lived in Chevy Chase for the past 15 years, recently had a listing for a 1920s house in this area that was priced at $1.3 million.

It sold with five offers over asking price in a matter of five days, she said. For the most part, houses under $1.1, $1.2 million move pretty quickly.



The two-bedroom, three-bathroom rowhouse at 935 Powhatan St., Alexandria, Va., is listed at $795,500. The listing agent is Bonnie Rivkin of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage. (HomeVisit)

Casaday expects prices in Zip code 20815 to only go up. A new town center is being built on Connecticut Avenue, and the Purple Line will bring more transportation options.

Some of North Chevy Chase and some of the neighborhoods closer to the Beltway are going to have that walkability, which is going to really [boost] property values in those areas, Casaday said.

New construction

The scarcity of new home construction is one reason prices remain high. An October report by the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments found the region needs to increase the number of housing units by 100,000 homes between now and 2045 to sustain economic growth and improve quality of life.

But after a discouraging 2018, new home builders seem more optimistic.

I think [2019 is] off to a good start, said Jeff Kottmeier, a market research adviser for John Burns Real Estate Consulting. The main reason is interest rates are down. Talking to builders, being out in the field, Ive definitely heard thats been a big impact on buyers coming back into the market. Weve seen a lot of good traffic at their sales offices. Fewer people than there were last year, but the people tend to be more qualified buyers.

Still, single-family building permits were down in 2018, and Kottmeier expects them to be flat in 2019. The Burns home value index predicts price growth of 2 to 3 percent for all housing types and 2.5 percent for new homes this year.

We still see low supply, which will put pressure on prices, Kottmeier said.

Clower also expects home prices to continue to rise this year, but the increase will be constrained.

Overall housing affordability remains a challenge, he wrote. Younger households, the millennials, simply wont qualify for homes if prices escalate too much. We also expect that the economic cycle will slow the pace of economic growth in the region, even with the first phase of HQ2, and that should, theoretically, keep housing price increases bound within the range of 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent.


1 of 15 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad  Where We Live | Berwyn in College Park, Md. View Photos Residents tout the communitys unique shops, Sears homes and low crime rate. Caption Residents tout the communitys unique shops, Sears homes and low crime rate. Bill O'Leary/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

On a Saturday afternoon, faint sounds of passing trains faded in the distance outside the Smile Herb Shop in the College Park, Md., neighborhood of Berwyn.

The landmark, which has grown from an old house into a wellness oasis mostly through word of mouth over 40 years, sells a variety of healing concoctions, including specialty tinctures and tea blends designed for people with ailments such as anemia, arthritis and diabetes.

The College Park area is very biodiverse, said Alec Heron, 28.

Heron, who is one of the shops homeopathic specialists and lives down the street, was touting the native mushrooms and plants unique to Berwyn during its monthly walking tour, where neighbors are invited to explore local trails with botanical experts from the herb shop.

The White Lotus Wellness Center two doors down also partners with the herbal shop to offer physical treatments such as acupuncture and yoga.

Such businesses catering to the unique needs of the community are part of what draws new generations of residents to Berwyn.





Karyn Keating-Volke, 62, a real estate agent with Berkshire Hathaway who has lived in Berwyn since 2012, said she was introduced to the community in 2005 when she bought a house for her daughters attending the University of Maryland.

Most of my neighbors are longtime residents  people just dont leave! My neighbor across the street is 78 and she has lived in Berwyn all her life. Another neighbor grew up in Berwyn and once he got married, they bought a house here. Many other neighbors have lived here for decades, said Keating-Volke, co-recording secretary of the Berwyn District Civic Association.

Berwyn, she said, has very little crime in this end of College Park, unlike other areas, an added plus.

[In these Vienna Woods, the tales seem to have a happy ending for residents]

Monthly block party : The community was established around 1900. Many of the houses were purchased from the Sears catalogue and delivered by train, which was unloaded at the end of Berwyn Road.

Most of the homes that are built of wood like mine  instead of brick  were prefabs offloaded from the train tracks down the street from here, said Jeff Cruz, 44, who owns a Sears-catalogue home.

Cruz described how the prefabricated units were manufactured off-site in advance, usually in uniform sections, so they could be easily shipped and assembled.

As he puffed a cigarette on his front porch, Cruz added that he takes his two sons to his former elementary school, Holy Redeemer on Berwyn Road. Holy Redeemer, a Catholic school ranging from kindergarten through eighth grade, has 250 students.

I just came back from biking to the park with my son, Cruz said. He added that tennis courts, parks and bike trails leading to the nearby man-made Lake Artemesia make the community fun and accessible to explore with friends and family.

[A D.C. neighborhood goes from kind of rugged to really in demand]

One of the popular attractions in the community is Fishnet, a restaurant on Berwyn Road known for its fresh selection of fish and seafood dishes. Fishnet offers a community block party once a month with free food, and many neighbors come out to visit with each other, Keating-Volke said.

Residents said theyre looking forward to the completion of a new discount grocery store along Route 1, Lidl, which is expected to open later this year. The University of Maryland is booming with new buildings and resources on and off campus that are becoming huge draws for the college town.



The Berwyn neighborhood of College Park, Md., was established around 1900. Many of the houses were purchased from the Sears catalogue and delivered by train, which was unloaded at the end of Berwyn Road. (Bill O'Leary/The Washington Post)

Living there: The Berwyn neighborhood is bounded on the east by the CSX railroad tracks; on the west by U.S. Route 1, also known as Baltimore Avenue; on the north by Maryland Highway 193 (University Boulevard); and on the south by the subdivision lines of Lakeland. Lake Artemesia is just southeast of the neighborhood by trail.

In the past six months, nine homes have sold in Berwyn, ranging from a two-bedroom, two-bathroom 1,029-square-foot condo for $200,000 to a three-bedroom, two-bathroom 1,170-square-foot house for $350,000, Keating-Volke said.

There are three homes for sale, ranging from a three-bedroom, three-bathroom property priced at $310,000 to a five-bedroom, three-bathroom property listing for $415,000.

Keating-Volke said the real estate market in Berwyn is very competitive and homes, if priced right, get snatched up fast.

Certain investors are quick to buy and usually we get multiple offers on homes for sale, she said.

Schools: Holy Redeemer (Catholic), Paint Branch and Berwyn Heights Elementary; Greenbelt Middle; and Parkdale High.

Transit: According to Keating-Volke, many residents work at the University of Maryland. They walk or bike to work. Others take buses to the Greenbelt or College Park Metro stations. An Uber ride to Dupont Circle will cost $6 to 12, depending on the time of day. Route 1/Baltimore Avenue is the main street.

Crime: In the past six months, there have been 11 thefts, five property crimes, one break-in and one violent robbery, according to crimereports.com .




(Stacy Zarin Goldberg for The Washington Post)

Make each of this weeks most-viewed recipes and youll be in for a delectable few days of eating.

1. Spicy Ahi Tuna Poke, above. Pokes popularity in Hawaii is trickling onto the mainland, meaning its time to hop on board and try making it in your own kitchen. Head to Voraciously for tips on how to get started with poke and mix it up.



(Stacy Zarin Goldberg for The Washington Post)

2. Stir-Fried Beef With Ginger and Scallions. The prep time for this stir-fry might seem a tad arduous, but its worth it to get the full ginger kick. Once everythings ready, this Dinner in Minutes whips together quickly.



(Tom McCorkle for The Washington Post)

3. Skillet-Roasted Chicken Thighs With Potato-Carrot Hash. Crispy chicken, sweet carrots and a shot of lemon to liven the whole thing up. Youll need two pans for this Dinner in Minutes on Voraciously, but the cleanup is well worth it.



(Stacy Zarin Goldberg for The Washington Post)

4. No-Knead Whole Wheat Bread. Its so hard finding the right whole-wheat bread, so we found one for you. If youve got a Dutch oven and a little bit of patience, but you wont need to work too hard to get this crusty, hearty bread on your table.



(Photo by Stacy Zarin Goldberg for The Washington Post)

5. Any-Fruit Cobbler. Any way you want it, thats the way you eat it! This is a fail-safe guide to cobbling together a warm, gooey dessert with any fruit you want or have on hand. Go to Voraciously to find out how to riff off this recipe.

More from Food:

How to make your best batch of biscuits

The Top Chef judges never ate Eric Adjepongs finale meal. So he made it for us instead.

Five things to know about natural wine


Exceptional Excellent Very Good



FROM LEFT: Domaine Joly Les Varrons 2016; Two Shepherds Trousseau Gris Fanucchi Vineyard 2015; Vignoble Musset-Roullier Les Neuf Vingt, La Maturit de la Passion Anjou Rouge 2017; La Staffa, Mai Sentito! Frizzante (Stacy Zarin Goldberg/for The Washington Post)

Natural wines, like any category, cover a spectrum. They can aggressively challenge our preconceptions of what wine should be, mostly in a reaction against modernity. Such wines are often cloudy and funky, natural in the way someone claims to be who refuses to bathe. Others are electric and compelling, demonstrating how a minimalist but meticulous approach to winemaking can give us exciting wine that expresses character and terroir.

Here are four wines that show that excitement. Our Greatest Value this week is a lithe, agile and vibrant cabernet franc from the Loire Valley in France. We also have a trendy trousseau gris from California, an even trendier ptillant-naturel from Italy, and a skin-fermented chardonnay from the Jura in France, a region beloved of the natural wine movement for its oxidative style of winemaking.

A fifth wine engaged me in a tug of war for three days, but the importer has apparently gone out of business, so I dont include it here. But Ill remind you of two of my favorite wines from Georgia: Baias Wine Tsolikouri 2017 and Dila-O Rkatsiteli-Mtsvane Dry Amber Wine 2017 (I raved about the 2016s of each late last year) are available at Batch 13 and Potomac Wine & Spirits, among other stores and restaurants in the District.

GREAT VALUE

Vignoble Musset-Roullier Les Neuf Vingt, La Maturit de la Passion Anjou Rouge 2017

Loire Valley, France, $15

This delightful cabernet franc exhibits what wine lovers call tension  it seizes your palates attention like a cat ready to pounce on its prey. Theres an excitement and anticipation at first sip, and when youve savored the dark cherry, smoky leather and dried plum aspects of the wine, youll know that the wine has indeed caught its prey: your imagination. I dont know why this wine isnt more widely available. Alcohol by volume: 13.3 percent.

Imported and distributed by Simon N Cellars: Available in the District at Cleveland Park Wine and Spirits, Cork & Fork; on the list at Corduroy, Frenchys Naturel. Available in Virginia at Leesburg Vintner, Tastings of Charlottesville, Unwined (Alexandria, Belleview), the Vineyard in McLean, the Wine Outlet in Great Falls; on the list at Renewal in Charlottesville.

Two Shepherds Trousseau Gris Fanucchi Vineyard 2015

Russian River Valley, Calif., $31

I recently enjoyed a beaujolais-style red called Wiley Carbonic Carignan, made from grapes grown in old vineyards in Mendocino County. The trousseau gris is an oddball wine, and theres the charm. Its a white mutation of the red trousseau, another grape variety youve probably never heard of. The wine isnt exactly a ros, as the color is more orangeish than pink, coming from five days of fermentation on the skin. Slightly oxidative, with a dried fruit and spice character, the wine pairs nicely with nuts, cheeses and salads, or other dishes with fruit. It reminded me of a fine fino sherry, without the kick of fortification. It could serve as a crossover for fans of natural wine to discover sherry. ABV: 13.4 percent.

Distributed by Bacchus: Available in the District at Grand Cata; on the list at Central Michel Richard, Chloe, Kyirisan, Le Diplomate. Available in Maryland at Wine Source in Baltimore.

La Staffa, Mai Sentito! Frizzante

Marche, Italy, $19

Ptillant-naturel is all the rave these days, especially among the hipster sommelier set. An ancient method of making sparkling wine, it is simpler and cheaper than the champagne method, and more natural than just carbonating wine with carbon dioxide to produce bubbles. This one, made primarily from verdicchio with some trebbiano gentile completing the blend, is crisp, refreshing and delicious. While fine by itself, the wine has enough bite to suggest pairing it with salads and some lighter seafood dishes. ABV: 11.5 percent.

Imported and distributed by Le Storie: Available in the District at Ace Beverage; Cordial Craft Wine, Beer & Spirits (Union Market); DCanter; MacArthur Beverages; Via Umbria; Wardman Wines; on the list at A Rakes Progress, Reverie. Available in Virginia at the Brew Shop and Crystal City Wine Shop in Arlington; Beer Run, Market Street Wineshop, Tavern & Grocery, Wine Warehouse in Charlottesville; Brut, Department of Beer and Wine and Grape+Bean (Rosemont) in Alexandria; Chain Bridge Cellars in McLean; Saison Market and Union Market in Richmond, Vinosity in Culpeper; on the list at Osteria da Nino in Arlington, Tuscarora Mill in Leesburg.

Domaine Joly Les Varrons 2016

Cotes du Jura, France, $26

Jura, in eastern France, is a darling region in the natural-wine movement, partly because winemaking techniques there have not been swept up into the modern (industrial) age. The Domaine Joly Les Varrons is all chardonnay, but its made in an old-fashioned way with the grapes fermented on the skins. The result is a slightly hazy, amber-colored wine with more tannin than we expect from modern white wines. That gives it a sense of bite on the palate, as well as the stuffing to match heartier foods than we might usually pair with white wines. Try this with a spring stew of veal or lamb, a pork roast or roasted chicken. ABV: 13 percent.

Imported by Hirsch Collection, distributed by Hop N Wine: Available in the District at Rodmans. Available in Virginia at Balduccis, La Fromagerie and Planet Wine & Gourmet in Alexandria, Lake Anne Coffee House & Wine Bar in Reston, Unwined (Alexandria, Belleview), Vienna Vintner.

Availability information is based on distributor records. Wines might not be in stock at every listed store and might be sold at additional stores. Prices are approximate. Check Winesearcher.com to verify availability, or ask a favorite wine store to order through a distributor.




A glass of Two Shepherds Trousseau Gris, a natural wine that made our wine columnists recommended list this week. See the link, below. (Stacy Zarin Goldberg/for The Washington Post)

Natural wine has been trending over the past decade or so, and these days certain wine bars, restaurant lists and retail stores are solely devoted to it. The latest Wine & Spirits magazines annual poll, which I wrote about last week, noted that diners are requesting natural wines at establishment restaurants such as Le Bernardin in New York City. As sommelier Aldo Sohm explained: Its different. Thats what they liked about it.

But what exactly is natural wine? Here are five things to know:

1. There is no one definition of natural wine, and the term is controversial.

The controversy is easy to spot. Nobody wants to acknowledge (or be accused of) making an unnatural wine. Natural wines champions emphasize minimal intervention by the winemaker in the vineyard and in the winery. This generally means no pesticides, herbicides or fungicides (no modern chemicals) sprayed on the vines, no cultured yeasts used in fermentation, and  in the extreme  no sulfur added to stabilize the wine.

[Four natural wines to electrify your palate, starting at $15]

There is no single definition, but the way we define it is that all the grapes in the wines we sell are farmed organically or biodynamically, fermented with native yeast, and bottled with minimal, if any, sulfur, says Jeff Segal, co-owner of Domestique wine store in the District, which specializes in natural wines.

Sulfur is the controversial aspect of natural wine. Its a natural substance, used for centuries to stabilize wine and prevent spoilage in bottle. But because it is an additive, natural wines early advocates campaigned against it. That led to a strong backlash among winemakers and critics who said the new movement was celebrating faulty wine.

2. Natural wine isnt new.

People who have been drinking wines all their lives have been drinking natural wines, they just havent been calling them that, Segal says. A lot of the worlds classic wines have been made with these principles for a long time.

Many natural wine producers are small family producers, making wine the way previous generations did, without modern chemicals or techniques.

I look for wines made with care, by families, by hand, says Helen Johannesen, wine director for the Jon & Vinnys restaurant group and proprietor of Helens Wines, a boutique wine shop in Los Angeles. A lot of the wines I sell fall in a natural spectrum, in that there isnt a lot added or taken away from them in the way mechanization can do.

Natural wine celebrates ancient winemaking techniques, such as fermenting and aging wines underground in clay qvevri, the traditional method in Georgia. That country was the birthplace of wine, according to current archaeological research. The wine might also be aged in concrete eggs but never in new oak barrels  those are, after all, a source of added flavors not inherent to the grape or vineyard.

3. Natural wine is anti-science. Or is it?

Natural wine, at its extreme, rejects modern science and technology. Those interventions, chemicals and additives natural winemakers deplore have made modern wine reliably free of many types of spoilage and faults. Rejecting those tools and techniques for ideologys sake often results in wines that are downright awful and unstable, spoiled by bacteria, reeking of bad vinegar. Modern winemaking has been so successful in eliminating these flaws that some people actually relish them simply because they are different.

But it neednt be this way. Its easy to let a bunch of grapes ferment and do nothing to prevent the wine from going bad, but it takes talent and effort to make a clean natural wine, Segal says.

Johannesen agrees. A wine doesnt have to be cloudy and [messed] up to be amazing to drink, she says.

Natural can be an excuse for lazy winemaking, and I am not just posing a straw man here. I have heard pretentious importers claim their wines were so natural they represented the true terroir of their region, while I could only conjure the terroir of a toilet bowl. And I have tasted electric and vibrant natural wines that seized my attention and held on until I drained the last drop from the bottle. That type of winemaking requires meticulous care, in the vineyard and in the winery.

4. Even some adherents are leery of the term natural wine.

While Segal and his partners embrace the natural wine label at Domestique, Johannesen is leery of adopting it for Helens Wines, even though her reputation is squarely in that camp.

Natural wine has become such a movement that I shy away from attaching my programs to a label like that, even though it simplifies to a consumer what Im doing, she says. The basic foundation is organic farming. I dont want to buy wine that has been exposed to a lot of herbicides and pesticides.

We try to stay away from the term natural wine, even though we follow those principles of minimal intervention and natural yeast fermentation, says William Allen, owner and winemaker at Two Shepherds winery in Californias Sonoma County. Two Shepherds has become a darling of natural wine fans.

5. Natural has changed the discussion about wine.

Despite its controversy and polemical aspect, the natural wine movement has contributed to an increasing focus on environmentally friendly viticulture and a hands-off approach in the winery. Sensing a market niche, some are producing experimental wines without added sulfur to challenge the accepted modern doctrine that wine needs sulfur to survive.

So natural wine has helped shape the discussion of wine. And thats a good thing.




Blake Schwarzenbach performed with a reunited Jawbreaker at the Anthem on Thursday. (Josh Sisk/For The Washington Post)

Pop music critic

When your favorite punk band re-forms  and its only a matter of time  you wont buy a ticket hoping to be surprised. Youre going to that show to bathe in a nostalgic reverie, to renew your vows with your formative tastes, to reconnect with your hungry inner-kiddo, to be impressed with yourself for remembering all of those drum fills, to feel good, punk rock hooray.

Could a Jawbreaker show feel anything like that? In the middle of the tempestuous punk trios Thursday night set at the Anthem in Washington, singer-guitarist Blake Schwarzenbach described the entire endeavor as a fools errand  one that pits 51-year-old self versus 24-year-old self. It was a pledge of commitment disguised as self-deprecation: They wouldnt be here if this was easy. Living through this music in their youth was hard. Reliving it at middle age is even harder.

For most other groups, the reunion life sure seems breezy, not to mention lucrative, which is why so many reunions feel airless and edgeless. Its been 15 years since the Pixies re-formed, setting off a chain reaction of bands reconvening for cash, glory, legacy refurbishment and maybe even for fun. Some reunions feel like no-stakes reenactments. Others prove that old songs can say new things. Which would this be?

I had no original concert experience to compare this to. I adored Jawbreaker as a teenager, but I never got the chance to genuflect in real life. On Thursday night, I still wasnt sure I wanted to, which turned the show into a battle between my 39-year-old self and my 15-year-old self.

I first fell for this band in a way that probably sounds ancient to todays youth: My high school girlfriend and I heard them on after-hours alt-rock radio, and she special-ordered their new CD, 1994s 24-Hour Revenge Therapy, from a local record shop for my 15th birthday. Very cute. Then we hit play. We had never heard an album that made us feel more hopeful or more doomed. Here was a pop-punk band from California that seemed so wise, so literate, yet so skeptical of itself, and so sophisticated in its desperation. I couldnt grasp it all in the spring of 1994, but I did feel that Schwarzenbach was sending a critical message to all of punk teenagerdom from across the fault line of adulthood: Your frustration with this dumb world will not fade, but you might get a little smarter about it.

Then, in 1995, the band accepted a cool million from DGC, the major label that hoped to transform Jawbreaker into Green Day for teenage Sartre readers. But when the bands fourth studio album, Dear You, dropped later that year, all the kids in punkland jumped ship seemingly overnight. Some defected on principle (Jawbreaker sold out!), while others bailed on what they were actually hearing. The scene had unanimously decided that the production on Dear You was too clean, too sleek, too legible, and it made the music seem dishonest. Within a year, the band was over.

Listening back today, this might be the most baffling component of Jawbreakers collapse. How could there be more truth, more clarity in a bands blurrier music? It might just be that we love to hear a band leaning over the edge of its collective ability  and on Dear You, Jawbreaker sounded like it had finally gotten a tight hold on its ideas.



After breaking up in 1996, Jawbreaker  bassist Chris Bauermeister, guitarist-vocalist Blake Schwarzenbach, drummer Adam Pfahler -- reformed in 2017. (Josh Sisk/For The Washington Post)

Onstage at the Anthem, the band made it clear that it had mastered its sound since reuniting in 2017, but there was a new tension in the air, and it had to do with endurance  that 51-against-24-year-old thing. When youre young, youre pushing against the boundaries of your competence. When youre older, youre fighting against your exhaustion. So when Schwarzenbach snarled his most eternal lyric  Survival never goes out of style  as if it could have burned his throat, it felt good to hear the effort. Same for Chris Bauermeisters labored bass lines as they dangled toward the void. Same for Adam Pfahlers slugged drum fills, which always gave Jawbreakers music so much of its stealth melancholy.

Ideally, this is what you want at the reunion show. The things you understand about a bands sound should feel cleaner and closer. As for what remains mysterious, it should feel more unreachable than when you walked in. When the band tore into West Bay Invitational  a song about the mundanities of a weirdo house party performed with feral urgency  I could only hear big, fiery question marks. The roaring twenties that Jawbreaker had promised me in this very song had come and gone, but the scorching anticipation was still right there in the music.

It reminded me of the teenager that I used to be, but it didnt make me feel young. It reminded me of the adult that I wanted to become, but it didnt make me feel old. Instead, it reminded me of something that music should always be reminding us of in the radiant blaze of right-now: Were always younger than were about to be.


It is 1928 and Berlin is at the center of a razzle-dazzle world between two wars. At the bustling Grand Hotel a series of eclectic guests and staff including a fading ballerina, a destitute baron, a wannabe-starlet typist, and an ailing bookkeeper collide in a non-stop musical toast to the high life.

Artistic Director Eric Schaeffer reunites the creative team behind last seasons smash hit A Little Night Music to conjure a scintillating musical destination where captivating characters played by Bobby Smith (Titanic, A Little Night Music), Natascia Diaz (Crazy for You), Kevin McAllister (Titanic), Nicki Elledge (A Little Night Music) and more converge with a lavish and lively score to embody the joy, style and decadence of the 1920s.

A showstopper at every turn.  TheaterMania


